---
ingest_date: 2026-05-21
pub_date: 2025-06-10
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
thread: freeman
show: Judging Freedom
host: Andrew Napolitano
guest: Charles Freeman
title: "AMB. Charles Freeman : Israel Destroying Itself."
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
source_note: Operator pasted full transcript in Codex chat. Direct YouTube watch URL not yet recovered.
quality_note: Normalized to remove sponsor/promo copy and transcript noise; minor artifacts may remain.
opening_tier: host-tease
---

Hi everyone, Judge Andrew Napolitano here for a judging freedom. Today is Tuesday, June 10th, 2025. Ambassador Charles Freeman will be with us in just a moment on who really controls American foreign policy and is Israel slowly destroying itself?

Ambassador Freeman, welcome here, my dear friend. Good day to you and thank you for joining us and accommodating uh my schedule. As as I look at uh the events of the past week and the fingerpointing and the denials, I'm speaking, of course, of the uh drone attacks on four Russian air bases and some civilian sites uh as well. I want to ask you before we get into is Israel destroying itself, who controls American foreign policy, who calls the shots? It's not entirely clear. Um uh one of the uh one of the conclusions you might draw from this recent uh series of events, attacks on Russia that violate the norm against attacking elements of the nuclear deterrent of a great power. um uh is that uh in fact uh we're on autopilot to some extent. Um uh a a a covert program probably hatched by MI6 in with the Ukrainians uh pro undoubtedly approved u uh with by the CIA during the Biden administration. Um probably Richie Richishi Sunnak in in Britain, who knows? um just carried over into the Trump administration and there is no evidence that uh the Trump administration was in fact informed of this program uh or that uh if it was it uh it was able to uh make its own decision about whether it should go forward or not. And in fact, the purpose of the attacks u seems in part to have been to sabotage any prospect of a successful meeting between Russia and Ukraine at Istanbul. Uh and of course those talks have uh now been essentially reduced to dealing with technical issues like the exchange of the dead and um and and the exchange of of uh of wounded and women. um uh who are in the two countries. So uh peace talks which the president uh very much wanted um uh have been set aside. Do you think that the Kremlin believes and do you Ambassador Charles Freeman find credible Donald Trump's denials that the United States knew nothing about this? Well, the United States certainly did know about it, but whether President Trump knew or not is is another question. I think it's entirely plausible given the messy uh confrontational nature of the transition between the outgoing Biden regime and the Trump administration that in fact uh knowledge of this operation was not passed on. Uh so I I think it's entirely uh possible that uh the head of the US government elected to uh defend the constitution and implement the faithfully execute the laws of the country uh was ignorant. He did not know. Um this says something very bad uh about uh the reliability of the United States as a partner for anyone. Uh if uh if in effect um uh the head of state, the head of government um the president uh is trying to do one thing and uh programs set in motion by his predecessor uh continue to do something else. Uh then uh you know who is in charge? I don't know. Right. I would think uh CIA director Ratcliffe would fire whoever in the agency did this and didn't inform him. I would uh also think given his propensity for these public firings, the president might fire Ratcliffe because he ought to have known. I mean, the CIA is a paramilitary organization and they have an obligation to inform their superiors of what they're up to. Here's what um the dean of foreign diplomats, my new friend Sergey Lavough had to say about this uh yesterday at a conference in Moscow attended by our friends uh George Galloway, Pepe Escobar, and um and Larry Johnson. But here's foreign minister Lavough. Chris, cut number eight. It is obvious that the Ukrainian side is doing everything possible, but it would be absolutely helpless without the support. I was tempted to say Anglo-Saxons, but probably without Saxons, just without the support of the British, although you never know, probably by some US special forces would be involved in that. But the British are actually behind all those things. I'm 100% sure. Well, he has access to a very sophisticated uh intelligence from one of the world's great uh and successful intelligence services, the Russian FSB. And he's saying he's 100% sure the British were behind it and probably the Americans as well. Do you agree? I think he's probably right. Um but I I think you know one of the issues here is uh going back to the question of the role of the CIA uh and our intelligence community. Obviously we have liaison relationships with foreign intelligence services uh the Ukrainians for example. Uh we also have a very intense relationship with MI6 in Great Britain. Um part of the liaison relationship should be uh to inform uh the CIA or the C if CIA is not informed for it to ascertain through its own efforts what other foreign ser foreign intelligence services are up to uh and from foreign militaries. Ukraine has said it did not inform the United States of what it did u uh in in these attacks. um that suggests that the US Ukrainian intelligence leaison relationship is not what it should be. But more important MI6 has a relationship with CIA which goes back to the dawn of the agency's creation. uh much of uh the uh law of espionage, intelligence analysis and so on uh that the United States has developed was developed under British toutelage. So we should know about these things and the fact that we didn't uh is uh pretty pretty uh pretty dismaying. H yesterday when I was talking with Alistister Crook who's experienced in many of these things I asked him who he thought was calling the shots in American foreign policy. He was bemoning the presence of senators Lindsey Graham and Richard Blumenthal uh in Kev patting um President Zullinsky on the back and encouraging him and making all sorts of promises. One of which is this bizarre boast that they both were making though mainly Senator Graham that they have legislation co-signed by 80 senators veto proof if they can get the same proportion in the house uh to force the president's hand uh and compel him to uh impose secondary sanctions on Russia meaning that any u country uh who bought products from Russia or sold products to Russia would also be sanctioned and and Alistister was bemoning that this is an improper interference in foreign policy which under the constitution devolves on the president and then I asked him the same question I asked you who is running American foreign policy um and here's the answer he gave Chris cut number five he's terrified of the Senate with 80% % of the Senate opposed um either to the Iran deal or to his deal normalization with Russia and want an escalation. This is very dangerous. So, who's in charge of foreign policy? The Russians may be asking himself. Well, not President Trump, but it will be split up between the deep state, the Congress, and Israel. Deep State, the Congress, and Israel. I suspect you agree. I do. Um I think if I were a foreign ambassador diplomat, which you once were. Well, I was an ambassador for the United States, but if I were a foreign ambassador in Washington asked to analyze that question, I would make a number of comments. First, I think the United States is in a pre-revolutionary situation. Uh there's widespread dissatisfaction. Uh the laws are being broken. Uh the legitimacy of the government is in question. The operation of the federal system is broken. Uh the policy process is chaotic. Uh and as Alistair indicated um well you go back to the federalist papers uh one of them I think written by Alexander Hamilton uh argues very cogently that uh the legislature should not be in charge of foreign policy uh because of the fickle nature uh of uh of legislative decisions. uh laws should not that this should be a matter of discretion primarily for the president uh and the constitution does give the president primary authority in foreign affairs. It's his decision whether to recognize a country or not, whether to receive foreign emissaries or not uh to appoint ambassadors subject to the advice and consent of the Senate. uh and we've our our constitutional system is not functioning on many many levels. So uh of course everybody abroad is confused. Right. Right. Were you surprised that Alistair added in the last two words which had not been the subject of our conversation and Israel? No, not at all. I think uh the Zionist lobby effectively controls our policies toward West Asia. Um I I think it's coming to the point where uh support for Israel's actions uh Israel itself is becoming unconscionable. Uh the world other than uh the United States and some parts of Western Europe um uh sees Israel as a force for evil, implacable uh determined, resolute in its cruelty and uh and yet we support it. So what happens as Israel loses all credibility and support abroad and generates u hatred uh we are suffering from contagion from Israel's collapse. Is Israel on the verge of domestic collapse due to the Netanyahu regime? It certainly looks the trends certainly seem to be in that direction. Um uh there's no national consensus on a variety of issues anymore. Netanyahu continues to u be a formidably effective politician but widely disliked in and opposed in not just in society at large but within uh the Israeli government. uh that is the intelligence agencies oppose many of his uh uh beliefs and and and contradict him. The military uh just don't like his military strategies. The hostage families regard him as duplicitus and uninterested in the well-being of their family members. the uh the ultraorththodox are ill at ease with uh the attempt to draw them into the military. Uh Israelis who are liberal or democratic and who have remained in Israel. Of course, many of them have immigrated um are uh are are upset by the effort to uh stifle the independence of the of the judiciary um and uh by uh the undemocratic uh nature of increasingly undemocratic nature of Netanyahu's rule. and Israelis who are not religious fanatics, secular Israelis um uh are dismayed by the presence in the cabinet of religious fanatics who are not just uh not just that but fascist. So I think we have a country that quite aside from the fact that its economy is suffering terribly uh from the ongoing u ef uh efforts to conquer Gaza, displace Palestinians from the West Bank uh devastate u Syria u and uh and and control Lebanon. Um you know I mean all of this is taking its toll. um startups which were the glory of India of Israeli uh science and technology in the Israeli economy are moving abroad. Bankruptcies are increasing. Many many people have gone abroad. We don't know whether they'll go back or not. There are increasing doubts among Israelis about the future of their country. And so if we listen to thoughtful Israelis, I think the answer to your question is yes. Israel is on a path to self-destruction. The um Iranian Iranian officials are claiming they have Israelis or Israel's nuclear secrets and Prime Minister Netanyahu has been mysteriously silent on this claim. The claim is now 48 hours old as we are recording this uh segment. What does this mean that they have Israel's nuclear secrets? Well, we don't know the content uh that they have acquired. Uh but we do know that one of the strange phenomena in the controversy over the Iranian nuclear program is that Israel's actual acquisition by clandestine means of a formidable nuclear um arsenal is never discussed. Um so we have uh you know Israel discussing the Israeli nuclear programs which were conducted behind the back of the United States in the face of assurances to us that they did not exist. Uh President Kennedy in particular was adamant on this subject and he was deceived. Uh th this these uh Israeli programs are never mentioned. So we have a double standard which is apparent to the entire world outside the United States. Let's get back to um before we finish, let's get back to uh the Ukrainian attack on Russia. Uh do you share the view of uh Western media that uh 40 or so uh multi multi-million dollar nuclear arms capable jets were destroyed? Or are you more in the Alistister Crook, Larry Johnson school of thought that it was no more than half a dozen? No, I think uh I think Larry and Alistister uh are correct on that. U there was damage done uh to the uh Russian nuclear uh bomber fleet for sure. There were also there's also a train dis derailed and and civilian casualties as a result of of of of action against that train which if if the intent was to create civilian casualties probably is correctly classified as an act of terrorism. But I don't think the damage was that substantial. Uh it's the precedent that this set that is the real problem. So the Russians are now rebranding the special military operation as a war against terrorism, which of course unleashes them under their own rules to seek to eliminate President Zullinski and his senior people. Do you see that happening? And if so, does that does that expand this? Well, I think the decision to proclaim that this is a a war of counterterrorism uh not only has important domestic effects in Russia because it's it basically it puts Russia under a form of of martial law which suspends those uh restraints on the government that existed. Not that they were that great. Um so the repression in Russia connected to the war, the surveillance, the the silencing of any disscent um is bound to increase. But you're also right uh you know I think what the the special military operation designation was intended to signal that this was a limited war limited not only in its um dealings with the backers of Ukraine but with uh Ukrainian factions that um uh you know have a history of tracing back to the German Nazi um uh SS which Um uh you know this is Stephan Bandera's heritage heritage. Right. Right. And and the question of dennazification which the Russians raised was nothing they were directly pursuing. But I think you're right. I think they now have expanded the the uh the attacks to include political figures um who are um in this ultraist Ukrainian camp. And and so I think the war has indeed escalated. Yesterday was the well, excuse me, Sunday was the anniversary of the Israeli attack on the USS Liberty. We all know what happened in your years in the State Department and in the Defense Department. Was there ever any talk or scuttle about gee, why did LBJ turn the jets around? Why did he let American soul sailor boys be slaughtered like that? Well, I think uh at during the period I was in government which ended in quite a while ago um uh 199 end of 1994. So um now 30 years um uh this was never discussed really. I mean the cover up was effective. uh the taboo enforced by the Zionist lobby politically uh operated effectively. What's happened is that uh more recently um I think as a result of Israel's bad behavior, its ability to silence discussion of this horrifying incident has lessened and we do hear more about it and um those who were involved in in the Liberty incident on the American side uh have come forth with uh with their own stories which they were instructed by LBJ and u and and the government at the time to not reveal. I mean, they were told on pain of punishment that they should keep their mouths shut and they're now speaking out, which is good. Right. The truth has a way of coming out even if it's uh 50 or 60 years later. Ambassador Freeman, thank you very much for your time. Always a pleasure, my dear friend. We look forward to seeing you next week. Keep well. Thank you. You, too.
