---
ingest_date: 2026-05-21
pub_date: 2025-07-29
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
thread: freeman
show: Judging Freedom
host: Andrew Napolitano
guest: Charles Freeman
title: "AMB. Charles Freeman : Does Israel Recognize its Own Genocide?"
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
source_note: Operator pasted full transcript in Codex chat. Direct YouTube watch URL not yet recovered.
quality_note: Normalized to remove sponsor/promo copy and transcript noise; minor artifacts may remain.
opening_tier: host-tease
---

Hi everyone, Judge Andrew Napolitano here for Judging Freedom. Today is Tuesday, July 29th, 2025. Ambassador Charles Freeman will be here with us in just a minute. Does Israel now itself recognize the genocide, the war crimes that it has perpetrated in Gaza?

Ambassador Charles Freeman, welcome my dear friend. I missed you for the past uh two weeks while I was traveling in Europe and it's a pleasure to be back at work and it's a pleasure to be with you my dear friend. But I do want to talk to you, as I said in the intro, about whether or not there is a growing realization amongst Israelis of the genocide that their government is perpetrating. But before we get there, some interesting recent developments. Yesterday, the president of the United States threatened the president of Russia and said, "Uh, if you don't stop this, calls it a war. " We're talking about the special military operation in in Ukraine. If you don't stop this war in 10 to 12 days, well well what what is this threat? What what is Donald Trump going to do to the Russian government or the Russian people or Vladimir Putin if the war is not over in 10 to 12 days and we know it won't be? I I don't know. I don't think there's very much. I think he's threatening um to have a bit of peak. Um uh you know, he's threatened major sanctions on on Russia, but frankly, Russia's already subject to uh the most amazing sanctions ever. Um uh he's uh he's threatened to arm Ukraine or we've been doing that all along. Um and so I don't know. Uh I think this is uh just petulence and uh uh I don't I don't know why anyone would take it seriously. What does this do to diplomacy? I mean this this is not as I understand it and you're you're the former diplomat and former ambassador. This is your field, not mine. I'm just the observer. But this does not strike me as any type of sophisticated diplomacy whatsoever. Well, there's no diplomacy. Basically uh uh this administration is managing international relations uh through the equivalent of extortion um bullying threats. Um we've just seen this uh dramatically illustrated by the uh uh the unequal treaties they're called um that Japan and the European Union have succumbed to. First of all, they're not professionally reached. There is no text uh to uh there's no agreed text uh on these trade deals. They're entirely oral. Um they're vague. Uh they're subject in both cases to additional American actions as yet unspecified with regard to specific categories of goods. uh both basically Japan and the EU have been forced to accept u a 15% across the board tariff as a permanent condition of their relationship with the United their relationships with the United States. Can I can I put that another way? the American public has been forced to accept a 15% sales tax on goods and services that it's going to uh purchase from the EU and from uh Japan. Do you agree with it? Put that absolutely that that is absolutely the case. I'm glad you interveneed to say that because um you know we have the very odd situation where a tariff which is an import tax um uh paid for by the consumers of the people who actually import things u uh is described as a tax on foreigners. It is not a tax on foreigners. It is a tax on us and the only question is how much of that tax is going to be paid for by the uh actual importer let's say Costco or or Amazon or one of these large companies um and how much is going to be passed on directly to the consumer. And we're told uh that uh Japanese up to now have been absorbing a fair amount of the tariff increases which of course have varied widely in the absence of any real strategy uh or consistency uh but that they have now run up against uh the reality that they can they can absorb no more. See these faults passed on and there's some really weird um confusion here. For example, uh Detroit, which has been, you know, we we have Japanese auto companies, Honda, uh making uh Toyota making cars, Subaru making cars here in the United States, making car parts here in the United States. These are now subject to a 15%, as you say, import sales tax. But in addition, the steel that they need to import is going to be taxed at 50%. So, who's going to benefit from this? Not clear to me. So, if you buy a $100,000 Mercedes, which would be a low-end Mercedes, it's going to cost you $115,000. If you buy a $100 microwave at Walmart, it's going to cost you 115. Yeah, that's probably generally true. the confusion over the 50% tax on steel in an Americanmade car owned by a Japanese company. It might take a PhD in uh in economics. It would take Jeff Saxs uh to to figure that out. Let me get back to something you said which is piqued my interest. You said that these uh agreements have not been reduced to writing. How can you have an agreement of this magnitude not reduced to writing so we don't know what's in there? Well, they're not agreements. That's the point. Um there are uh capitulations by foreigners uh to bullying. Um there's no meeting of the minds. There's no mutual benefit. For example, Europeans are pointing out and by the way, they using the term unequal treaties to parallel the kind of impositions that were made on China in the 19th century by imperialist powers including us um which of course ended up causing a revolution in China, two revolutions in China um and knocking China for a loop for almost 150 years. um Caribbeans are saying pointing out that um they agreed that everything they sell to the United States will be subject to a 15% import tax by Americans but that and and they will not they will not have any import tax on American imports imports from us. So they've given up um a lot of trade in return for absolutely nothing. Absolutely nothing. Let me get back to um Trump's uh threat to um uh to Putin. Here he is yesterday in the presence of Actually, I'm not a fan of Keith Stormer. I know you're not either. Or Sir Kira Stormer, the prime minister of Great Britain. I felt sorry for him. I don't know if he got five words out of his mouth in a 90minute press conference, but anyway, should have known what he was getting involved with sitting next to Donald Trump in front of the press. Here were the two of them yesterday. During the course of this clip, uh, is when he says, I'm giving him 10 to 12 days. He also says something that's rather startling, and I'm going to ask you about that. He claims the Russians have lost a million troops in Ukraine. I've not seen that number anywhere, but before you comment on it, uh, let's take a watch. Chris, cut number 15. Have you had any other channels conversations with the Russians reiterating this in what? reiterating reiterating this new uh pressure and deadline. Yeah, we're going to have a Yeah, I mean, well, you're the press. I'm reiterating it to you. Yeah, I'd say 10 to 12 days. I'll announce it probably tonight or tomorrow, but there's no reason to wait. If you know what the answer is going to be, why wait? And it it would be uh sanctions and maybe uh uh tariffs, secondary tariffs, you know what a secondary tariff is. And uh look, the Russian econ I don't want to do that to Russia. I love the Russian people. They're great people. Uh I don't want to do that to Russia. But this this thing, they're losing a lot of Russians. They've lost a million Russians. And that's the, you know, sons, that's the sons and daughters of uh Russian families. They leave the house, they go by mom, bye dad, and then they get blown away. And Ukrainian, too. Look at Look at Ukraine. It's a disaster what's happened there, but it continues to go on. Uh, as you know, we made a deal where the European Union is essentially involved, but it's NATO and we're we're supplying weapons to NATO. NATO's now paying. So, first of all, the 10 to 12 days, I think a number off the top of his head. Yeah. Secondly, I guess he's going to impose some sort of secondary tariffs about which Russia and China couldn't care less. But this million uh person losses, have you seen that anywhere? I don't think that's consist of pulling numbers, as you say, out of the air. In this case, he's citing a number which is produced by the Ukrainian propaganda machine against the Russians. Um there's no basis for it at all, no evidence whatsoever to back it. Uh it is distortion of reality. The reality appears to be that the Ukrainian deaths have vastly outnumbered the Russian deaths. Uh and uh uh while the Russians and certainly made major sacrifices terms of their manpower on the battlefield, it's nothing like that. Um, but this is the the you you see uh numbers uh for the Russian losses and none for the Ukrainians. That's because the Ukrainians are making this stuff up and the US press u the government is dutifully reporting it uh repeating it. So that's nonsense. As for secondary sanctions, I wouldn't dismiss those, if he actually does them, uh, as unimportant because basically that has the capacity uh, to throttle the global economy. He's talking about putting sanctions on our friends uh, or let's say India for example, if it imports Russian oil. uh and the figure that u this is a Lindsey Graham and uh uh special uh that he's talking about. It makes no sense at all. No economist that I know uh has uh anything but uh ridiculed for it. Uh and I don't think the Russians would be intimidated by that. um he's going to put an additional tariff on China uh which is a major importer of Russian goods um at a time when he seems desperate to have a trade deal with China. And there's a lot of evidence that his administration is in fact uh operating under the principle that they should not once again provoke the Chinese with new sanctions, new tariffs or whatever uh as they look forward to a meeting in Stockholm. Uh I mean how would how would such a tariff even be paid and collected? Uh Russia sell Russia sells oil to France. Yes. How where does the United States come into play tax collectors? Yeah. Then we tax the French for doing that bad thing. Um so we tax the French. No, we're not. We tax us. We tax the American people to punish the French for what they're doing that we don't want them to do. uh we do the same thing with imports from India, the same thing with imports from China. You know, basically you say the whole world, anybody in the world who's doing business with Russia on a normal basis is going to be subject to punitive action by us in the form of attacks on us on the American people to import whatever it is that Okay, let's let's um move on to Israel. Also in this presser yesterday, the president and the prime minister were ringing their hands over the level of starvation now well known and acknowledged by apparently everybody on the planet except for Ben-Gvir and Netanyahu. We'll play those clips in a minute. Um, but how disingenuous, how heartless, how indifferent could Trump be pretending to be upset about the starvation caused by a war he has funded, a war he could stop with a phone call. Well, rigging your hands while sitting on them is a common pose uh for uh for countries that will not step up and take responsibility for their actions. People are starving in Gaza with our direct involvement. It's not just that we're funding it. We created this monstrous thing called the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation to replace the UN which was doing the UN uh uh refugee works agency which knew exactly how to get food to people and which was getting food to people to the extent that Israel allowed it to do so. uh what we have created enforces the Israeli use of food as bait to lure people out where they can be killed. And uh so every day brings um a story of 100,000 or so desperate Palestinians killed by Israeli uh fire either from drones or from actual soldiers. And there are American mercenaries participating in this. Some have been so disgusted by what they have seen they've left and gone public uh condemning it. Um the entire world condemns it. Um and yet uh the president uh uh reacts as you say uh with a mixture of denial and and passive aggression. Um Israel's reaction is of course typically uh to lie to oh this isn't happening. Uh, you know, it's like Groucho Marx's famous comment. Are you going to believe uh u my my you're your lying uh I'm sorry can't Marks uh Groucho Marks who are you going to believe uh me or you're lying lies. Yes. Right. Um and uh uh we you know we the whole world can see what's going on and uh and Ben-Gvir and Smoke and others, they know exactly what's going on. They celebrate it privately, meaning in Hebrew, they talk about how great it is, how there not going to be any Palestinians left. And um publicly, uh they pretend that it isn't happening. And they get a lot of cooperation from camp followers of the Israelis abroad on this. Here's a smiling, smirking Benjamin Netanyahu denying that there is starvation in Gaza and taking credit for getting it's hard for me to say this with a straight face. Getting food to the people he's trying to eradicate from the face of the earth. Chris, cut number 17. Israel is presented as though we are applying a campaign of starvation in Gaza. What a boldfaced lie. There is no policy of starvation in Gaza and there is no starvation in Gaza. We've enabled the amount required by international law to come in. There are hundreds and hundreds of trucks loaded with tons. So far, we've supplied 1.9 million tons of food since the beginning of the war. Almost two million tons. And now we have hundreds of trucks that are waiting on the Gazin side of the current Shalom crossing. And it's uh international organizations, some of them very well intended. And it's the UN too food that they purchased. And we said, "Go ahead, deliver it." And they say, "We can't because combat is going on." And we say, "Yes, we're combat. We'll fight. Where we're fighting, we'll continue to fight, but there are safe corridors. You can bring the food to anywhere you want. That is not a problem. " Heard anything more disingenuous out of his mouth? Um well he achieved a record. Not a single thing he said was truth uh in all of those remarks. Um uh it was uh one lie after another and the entire world can see what's happening. Um uh so I think um uh the fact that he can stand there with the a poem that he did um and and lie in that manner um suggests either that he's dis disconnected uh from reality completely uh or that he is uh uh someone with no credibility at all. None. And it gets worse. Chris, cut number 18. A moral bankruptcy that while our hostages are in Gaza, our prime minister is transferring humanitarian aid to Gaza. I think that at this stage, the only thing that should have been sent to Gaza is one thing, bombs. Bomb, conquer, encourage immigration, and win the war. It's not a war. Of course, it's guy is really off the wall. This guy is condemning Netanyahu for allowing any aid to get through. Yeah. I mean, um, uh, the whole thing is so degenerate and despicable that it really fires, uh, all description. I don't I don't want to play the clip because it's very long, but Trump uh, did say yesterday that people are starving. We talked about this a few minutes ago. People are starving there, Mr. President, because you're arming a monstrous regime uh determined to cause that starvation. And you're and we are backing the starvation. This Gaza humanitarian foundation is a joint USIsraeli enterprise that is enforcing the starvation. Uh and uh not the business. There's no medicine in Gaza. There's no electricity, there's no water, there's no food. Uh, and we've already seen 17,000 babies die, not of starvation, but uh, more and more of them dying every day of starvation. Adults. U, the whole place looks like a death camp, and that's what it is. Mr. Ambassador, thank you very much. I'm sorry these conversations are so gloomy, particularly since we haven't chatted in two weeks, but this is this is the world uh this is the world today. The president doesn't understand Russia. Uh the president is totally controlled by Zionists on uh Gaza and uh who's running American foreign policy. It's not clear, but the horrifying realities are evident to all of us. Thank you, Ambassador. Pleasure, sir. We look forward to seeing you next week.
