---
ingest_date: 2026-05-21
pub_date: 2025-06-04
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
thread: freeman
show: Judging Freedom
host: Andrew Napolitano
guest: Charles Freeman
title: "AMB. Charles Freeman : Is Hegseth Picking a Fight With China?"
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
source_note: Operator pasted full transcript in Codex chat. Direct YouTube watch URL not yet recovered.
quality_note: Normalized to remove sponsor/promo copy and transcript noise; minor artifacts may remain.
opening_tier: host-tease
---

Hi everyone, Judge Andrew Napolitano here for Judging Freedom. Today is Wednesday, June 4th, 2025. Ambassador Charles Freeman will be here with us in just a minute on this. Is the American Secretary of Defense looking to pick a fight with China?

Ambassador Freeman, welcome here, my dear friend. Before we get to China, of course, the hot news on on which I ardently seek your views uh is the drone uh attack in in Russia. Did the United is it fair to characterize it this way, Ambassador? The United States of America and its NATO allies just waged an attack on Russia using their proxy Ukraine. Well, this was apparently begun planning for in the Biden Sullivan probably Rishi Sunnak area era about a year and a half ago. Um there's a real question about whether there was continuity in government u and the Trump administration knew about the plan. Um it seems everyone seems to have come down to the theory that the MI6 of Britain was behind it. Um it was very very dangerous. Um uh there has been a long tradition for good reasons that u the two sides in the cold war the United States and the Soviet Union now the United States and Russia exempt each other's nuclear deterrent all elements of it from attack because uh to attack a nuclear an element of a nuclear deterrent is regarded by both as the equivalent of a nuclear attack. it's uh trying to degrade the deterrent value of the other side's nuclear weapons. Of course, Great Britain is not part of the strategic arms limitations treaty which has been suspended which but which both sides had continued to honor uh in practice. Nor is Ukraine. Uh but uh this has set a precedent which is very bad. Not just because of the attack on the nuclear bomber, an obsolete bomber, the TU95, not made anymore, basically the equivalent of the B-52. Um, but also because of the method that was used, which was to use civilian uh drivers to drive trucks that had been specially engineered to have retractable roofs full of killer killer drones. uh had parked those and then um fire the drones through the roof after the roof was retracted. It doesn't appear that that much damage was done to the Russians. Satellite images show several aircraft severely destroyed and and a couple damaged but the basic fleet remains intact. This was um on the eve of the Istanbul talks and one has to suppose that the purpose was in part to derail those talks to rile up the Russians to do something crazy that would justify uh the continuation of the war which is what the British and other Europeans want not what President Trump wants. So this was a disaster uh in terms of the precedents it set uh and it was followed of course by u an effort to take down the bridge uh from uh uh the mainland of Russia to Crimea which al it also appears to have not succeeded. that is their traffic is still moving across the bridge apparently. But that too seems to have involved MI6 uh and uh expectations that uh with the takeout of the Russian bomber force, the takeout of the bridge uh the way would be clear for some sort of further assault on Crimea which there are indications may be in the preparation. Wouldn't uh a Joe Biden finding, President Biden finding, the signing of a statement authorizing this, they call it a presidential finding, have to be reported to President Trump? I mean, Ambassador Freeman, is it even conceivable that the president of the United States would not know that American intel had planned, plotted, and carried this out? I think unfortunately it is. Uh the transition was messy. Uh President Trump for some reason does not feel uh that he is bound by the decisions of his predecessors. Uh he acts as though he is the sole authority and not occupying the the office of the presidency. And I would have to say also that you know his um interactions with the intelligence community are brief, prefuncter um apparently uncomfortable. They take place uh once a week. Uh in about an hour he's to meet again with with the intelligence people for a briefing. Uh he does it only once a week. Um, I don't know what he knows and I think you can't be confident that in fact there was a sort of continuity that would have been appropriate. Is it conceivable that the CIA was not involved? Colonel McGregor seems to feel the CIA took a lead role in this. He also thinks, now I suggested this to him, but I didn't mean to put this idea in his brain. He also seems to think that MSAD was involved. that the nature of this attack was very reminiscent of the pager uh attack that MSAD pulled off uh in Lebanon. Um well, I think the CIA obviously had to have been involved. It has a very closely aison relationship with MI6 which was probably the lead agency on this. Um I don't know whether Msad was involved. I think there is an analogy with the terrorist attack on Hezbollah that MSAD carried out through explosive pagers. Uh but I don't think that necessarily leads to the conclusion MSAD was involved. On the other hand, the argument that it might have been involved is that uh the Israelis would like this war in Ukraine to go on. Um it it diverts attention from them. uh it keeps the US arguably tied down in their in their endeavors um and it's good for arms sales and a lot of uh Israelis are in fact from Ukraine. So um or Russia. So uh I can't rule that out but I don't see any evidence of it. Here's um I don't often u quote Steve Bannon, but he's harshly critical of Senator Graham uh and seriously uh warning of where uh this could go and he's harshly critical uh of President Zelensky. Here he is on another program, another show. I think this is Chris Cuomo show, but I I might be wrong. I'll identify the anchor uh in a minute. Cut number eight. We can have people over there stir taking that telling the Ukrainians that we're going to back more. What we're trying to do is calm this down. What President Trump is trying to say is look, look, we can't have Lindsey Graham and particularly Zelensky leading us into a third world war with a deep strike into Russia. And Putin came back today and said, "Hey, we're going to get to the bottom of this and we're going to see who's accountable in Ukraine and beyond." And that was a message to the United States. What he's doing over there right now is stirring it up. is giving Ukrainians false hope that we're there to support them on engaging Russia in a kinetic conflict and we are not. Two things ought to happen. Either cancel his passport and don't let him back in the country or put him in jail if he comes back. And people better wake up to the fact that we're getting sucked into this war. If the intelligence community actually did this, this is an act of war against Russia. Did the American people vote to go to war with the Russian people? That was News Nation with uh my longtime friend and former uh colleague Chris Cuomo. Uh I thought much of what Steve Bannon made sense. Aren't there statutes or rules that prohibit uh members of Congress from conducting their own foreign policy? Uh well there used to be but the presidents now are against that. Don't forget that uh uh when the JCPOA the uh agreement with was negotiated for the nuclear agreement was negotiated with Iran, we had 51 senators write a letter to the Ayatollah saying don't pay attention to that man in the White House. We're in charge and this agreement stinks. We won't approve it. Um, so there's uh there's an independent branch of government that unfortunately is heard from these days mainly in irresponsible ways. That is certainly the case with Lindsey Graham. I agree with Steve Bannon. This is not anything that that a senator you ought to be doing. Uh, and I note that there are increasing reports that Mr. Graham. Senator Graham may be on the Ukrainian payroll with money that's been laundered through the Baltics and its way into his uh his pockets or his campaigns. So, um this is very unsavory and very unwise on his part. Here's another clip. This is President Zelensky boasting about the uh success so-called success uh of this drone attack. Chris cut number 10. Europe together with America has better weapons than Russia. We also have stronger tactical solutions. Our operation spider web yesterday proved that. Russia must feel what its losses mean. That is what will push it toward diplomacy. And when Russia takes losses in this war, it's obvious to everyone that Ukraine is the one holding the line, not just for itself, but for all of Europe. Ambassador, if he means what he says, isn't this the height of naive that this drone attack will push Russia toward a diplomatic solution? And if anything, it'll push Russia towards more aggressive military solution. Um, two responses. First, um, the Russians don't panic easily. Vladimir Putin has a reputation for very coldblooded consideration of options. He has been very restrained in his response to this provocative action by Ukraine. Uh, he sent his team to Istanbul to conduct the talks. They did not uh uh reach any agreement at all except on a number of humanitarian prisoner and dead uh soldiers exchanges which are going forward. They did clarify that there is no meeting of the minds at all between Ukraine and Russia on how to end its war. President Zelensky just in effect confirmed that. Uh so um the second point is that uh you have to regard uh firing weapons deep into uh in central Siberia very far away from Ukraine and attacking Russian uh bases and trying to take down bridges and and actually blowing up a railroad with the death of some civilians as acts of desperation on Ukraine's part. They certainly do no good at all. there have no effect on the steady advance of the Russian forces on the ground along the entire frontier. They're now into Sunumi, the area that from which Ukraine attacked Kursk. Uh and they push they continue to push west and south virtually everywhere. attacking the rear um you know makes a little bit of military sense in terms of disrupting logistics but this doesn't these attacks didn't um affect logistics at all and they will have no effect on the battle that really counts which is the one on the ground the um the level of damage Alistister Crook says six to seven planes general Keane of course is on the payroll of one of these defense department think tanks says 40 to 44. A, does it make a difference given the size of the Russian fleet? B, which do you think is more accurate? Or do you have another number uh from your sources? I don't have a number, but it's a very I think Alistister Crook is uh very much in the ballpark and the other estimates are what the plan was. In other words, if it had been carried out that as as they hoped, that is what would have happened. Does this do anything significant to Russian warf fighting ability in Ukraine? No, it does not. Does it really degrade the Russian nuclear deterrent? Not much. These are, as I said, aircraft that went into production in 1952, quite a while ago. In that sense, they are the equivalent, as I mentioned, of the B-52. They're still operating. They're not being produced at all. There was apparently one transport aircraft illusion blown up, but the satellite photography shows minimal losses. Not not the sort of huge losses that General Keane posits. You know, Ambassador, I am not a fan of General Kellogg. I don't think you are either, but this is what he told Fox News. And it seems to be that even the neocons are worried about the potential for Russian acceleration of the war as a result of what the Ukrainians do. If you listen to him, it almost sounds like he and the people around the president had no idea this was happening. Chris, cut number six. Each age has its own style of warfare, and we're seeing now drone warfare, and we're going to have to adapt to that. Look at that. And it's not so much the damage done on the bombers, which was it what you call the bear, what in the NATO terms, we call them bear and blackjack. Uh because the 22s, the tupelov 22s, those are the swept wing ones that they're all nuclear capable. But anytime you attack the triad, it it it's not so much the damage you do on the triad itself like the the the delivery vehicles, the bombers, but it's the psychological impact you have. And it showed that was a huge embarrassment to Putin. Well, it's and I think what it showed it showed that you know Ukraine is not lying down on this. Ukraine is basically you know we can play this game too and they can raise the risk level to levels that are basically to me they've got to be unacceptable. Raise the risk levels that to a fourstar general neocon who whispers into the president's ear unacceptable. I don't even want to believe that. But well, he's um I think basically right in the sense that we've seen in this war that every escalation by Ukraine in the West has led to a counter escalation by the Russians. The fact that the Russians have have taken their time to investigate these incidents, make sure they understand them um and before they act is a sign of maturity on their part. But they will act. there will be a counter escalation. And General Kellogg, I believe in another context, is quoted as outlining uh some of the Russian arsenal that has been held in reserve and not devoted uh to the war in Ukraine. The Russians have plenty of means of upping the damage level in Ukraine. I expect they probably will. Transitioning to uh another field of your expertise, which is China. I'm going to ask you if the Secretary of Defense is saber rattling, but in fairness to him and to you, we'll play the clip uh of what he said. Chris, cut number 13. We cannot look away and we cannot ignore it. China's behavior toward its neighbors and the world is a wake-up call. Any attempt by communist China to conquer Taiwan by force would result in devastating consequences for the Indoacific and the world. There's no reason to sugarcoat it. The threat China poses is real and it could be eminent. We hope not, but it certainly could be. It has to be clear to all that Beijing is credibly preparing to potentially use military force to alter the balance of power in the Indoacific. We know it's public that she has ordered his military to be capable of invading Taiwan by 2027. Ultimately, a strong, resolute, and capable network of allies and partners is our key strategic advantage. China envies what we have together, and it sees what we can collectively bring to bear on defense. But it's up to all of us to ensure that we live up to that potential by investing. What is he talking about? Well, I thought you were going to ask me about drones where the Chinese are the global leaders. Um, and please tell us. And he makes it sound as though somehow 6,000 miles of ocean between us. The Chinese are ought to be afraid of us. Well, that's right. Um, but of course, they're supplying drones to both sides in the Ukraine Russian war or drone parts. Anyway, they haven't taken ch sides. his his statement um did did not go over terribly well with the audience. Uh the part that you just heard or you just played um basically demanded that countries in the region make a choice to align themselves with the United States in a future war with China. Absolutely none of them have made any such commitment and none of them want to make such a commitment. Uh, and I think people in the region are well aware there are no Chinese aircraft or ships patrolling the American coast or running provocative uh, uh, pseudo attacks on our ports to see how we react. Uh, we're in their face. They're not in ours. Uh, and when he talks about Chinese aggression, everybody in that audience knows that China hasn't started a war, hasn't been in a war since 1979, a war with Vietnam. uh whereas we have invaded multiple countries and we continue to maintain troops in places like Syria um which are uh complet there completely illegally. So I would say this was a talk addressed to the an American audience. It was a pep speech. Uh it was addressed to the extent it was to the people there uh to those who are passionately pro-American or anti-Chinese. But all of the polling data, the statements from leaders uh illustrate that that number of of countries is rather few if there are any. Uh a final point uh he also tried to make a point that Europeans should stick to Europe and not be helpful in not do anything in Asia. And that didn't go over well with our European allies who think that they now have to watch out for their own interests because we won't. So, um I think u uh this is this is a talk that did not uh did not have the effect that he hoped it would or that was reported in our press. Ambassador, if uh the Xi government decides to use military force to dislodge the government of Taiwan, what the hell can the United States do about it? Well, um, all of the war games that we've run, the scenarios we run show that if we do intervene to stop that, and by the way, this is a this is a Chinese civil war. It's Taiwan is, you know, the product of an American intervention to halt the Chinese civil war before it concluded, protect Changai. It's evolved into a robust democracy, but it's still part of a civil war situation. If we intervene, uh, all of the war games seem to show that we could lose twothirds of our navy and air force. The Chinese would, too. So, we would be finished as a world power with that that level of damage to our armed forces. And we don't have the ability to rebuild. People imagine that just as in World War II where Japan could not replace the ships and and aircraft that it lost whereas we could and and then then some that we're in that position. But the position now is reversed. China has 200 times the ship building capability we do. Its aircraft production uh is is able to ramp up considerably. It spends less than 2% of GDP on on on its military. We're spending uh not just the defense department budget but another uh another third or so on top of that 1.5 trillion about five or six% of our GDP and we're in debt. China's not. So this is not a a scenario that we ought to be looking for. And I think we're leading with our chin and I don't think we'll like the result if we actually get the war that we uh seem to be preparing for. Ambassador Charles Freeman, a pleasure, my dear friend, no matter what we're talking about. Thank you so much for joining us. We look forward and thank you for accommodating my schedule. This is not your usual time. We'll look forward to seeing you next week. Okay. Thank you, Ambassador.
