---
ingest_date: '2026-05-19'
pub_date: '2026-03-30'
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
title: "Larry C. Johnson: FULL ESCALATION: Yemen Joins, Hezbollah Crushes Tanks, US–Iran on Brink"
source_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EpnEi-bLyRQ
youtube_id: EpnEi-bLyRQ
channel_slug: dialogue-works
source_note: Transcript pasted manually by operator after direct YouTube watch URL recovery for the March 30 Dialogue Works episode.
editorial_note: Operator-pasted transcript body; not independently verified as verbatim.
show: Dialogue Works
host: Nima Alkhorshid
guest: Larry C. Johnson
thread: johnson
channel_url: https://www.youtube.com/@dialogueworks01
evidence_grade: transcript-bearing
---
# Larry C. Johnson: FULL ESCALATION: Yemen Joins, Hezbollah Crushes Tanks, US–Iran on Brink

Hi everybody. Today is Monday, March 30th, 2026, and our dear friend or brother Larry Johnson is here with us with his new beautiful shiny. >> Yeah. Hey, one of Yeah. One of the one of the supporters sent me a whole box, six of these. And you know, >> so lucky. >> Yeah. Well, and it the the shirts are great. Uh, I don't deserve it, but okay, I'll wear it. I did catch I was in Calgary that I wore all black. I went Johnny Cash and uh but uh then that was because it was 25 degrees Fahrenheit minus 2 Celsius and snow and Florida shirts don't play that. But uh I think we're on to something, you know, in the future instead of people killing each other, let's just have a shirt competition, you know. Exactly. you know, you know, cuz you got, you know, you're rocking a good shirt today. You're look looking styling big time. >> Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, I think your your sort of, you know, suggestion is amazing if the people if people decide to go there and that direction. Larry, let's start with what Donald Trump, you know, the way that Donald Trump is starting his week and he said in one of his latest post on True Social, he said that the United States of America is in serious discussions with a new and more reasonable regime to end our military operation in Iran. Who is he talking to? >> Well, so so pull up pull up sonar21.com and and and and look at the cartoon that's at the head of my article. Show that. I think you know they say one picture is better than a thousand words. The this this summarizes it. >> Yeah. I you know this time around is that the market is not reacting to what Donald Trump is saying. >> Oh, it did. It did. Oh, it did react. >> It did react. >> Oh, yeah. No, it's it's up it's up 300. Well, it started off it was up 400 points. 4 500 points. >> Now it's only up 213. >> So, uh, but are you going to show the cartoon? Can Can you post it there? >> Yeah. Let let me let me bring it up. I think that's >> I think if people haven't seen this, they need because this this encapsulates what's going on. Donald Trump is talking to himself. What it what the cartoon is got Donald Trump, fat, disheveled guy laying on a psychiatrist couch and the psychiatrist says something to him to the effect, "So these uh Iranians you're talking to, are they in the room with us now?" you know, you know. Yeah. There we go. Yeah. The Iranians you've been talking to for two days. Are they in the room with us now? He's he's delusional. Yeah. He's not talking to Iran. Nobody on his team is talking to any Iranian. if they're giving messages to Pakistan and Pakistan is passing it on to Iran and sometimes Iran accepts the message, they go, "Oh, okay." And then other times they say, "We're not even interested in the damn thing they have to say." Uh so the that's the state of the negotiations and and Trump is trying to pretend that this is um you know it's like a negotiating for buying a piece of property or negotiating to buy a car you know like say okay yeah you got this really nice home I'd like to buy it but I I'll pay you 900,000 or or the the price listed price is 900,000 I'll give you 700,000 and no, no, no. So maybe they'll come back and agree that it'll be 800,000. That's not that kind of negotiation at all between Iran and the United States. Iran's position is very clear and it's, you know, spelled out at at a minimum, get all US bases, all US military presence out of the Persian Gulf, lift all the sanctions, pay reparations. you know, those I'd say those are the core three. Uh but uh Iran's not looking to make a deal. Uh Iran is looking to make those conditions permanent. And u you know, they're not going to stop. And that's where Trump and the world the world is starting to scream in great pain from the from what's happening economically. and they want it to stop. And even if it stops, the damage that's now been done to the economies of these, you know, I'll call them false countries that are the Gulf States. I mean, let's face it, the Gulf Arabs are like a political version of Disneyland, something that completely artificially created out of nothing. And you know the royal sa family you know bunch of bedawin tribesmen for god's sake okay they're you know couple of generations removed from riding camels around the desert and ch and having hawks and just because they got a lot of money they get treated as if they're something special they're not special and when then you go to Qatar and uh United Arab Emirate those are completely artificial. You know, I didn't realize this until recently. You got all these big highrises, these magnificent buildings like in Dubai. >> They don't have a sewage system. I mean, every day trucks pull up and are loaded up with human feces, so they take and dump somewhere in the desert. I you know that so they're they're pretending like they're sophisticated and modern but you know it's just they got glorified outhouses and so you know the people get to they get to poop in their golden toilets then it gets flushed down to the bottom and they get all these uh these slave laborers from Asia that are there to to clean up all the westerners Sorry to be so crude but that's what it is. And now here's here's the UAE and Saudi Arabia. I mean, five weeks ago, six weeks ago, they were like at quote war. They were calling each other names and threatening each other. Now they're together. They're united against Iran. Oh, we're going to attack. We're going to declare war on you and you'll be sorry, Iran. Oh, for please. you know, they're UAE isn't even a speed bump in the highway and they got rolled over by Iran and Iran Iran's starting to take him apart. Uh the I I seriously believe that the United Arab Emirates is not going to survive intact as a country, as a nation, was whatever it is. It it has no it no longer has an economic foundation. right now that the its economy effectively 83% of it has been turned off. It's not operating. They you know oil exports 25% that's not going out. International trade at the Jebel Ali this free trade port nothing going on there. tourism. Only the Sato masochists are showing up. You know, they want to the the ones who want to risk being in a war and getting blown up. Everybody else is getting the hell out. Construction industry is dead. The financial industry dead. So um it we're living I think this is going to be really a watershed week in the sense that the it's the worsening global economic crisis is going going to come into focus up to this point. You know Trump is able to play these games. Oh, things are great, man. We're negotiations. This is going to be over. And a lot of the traders on Wall Street and London were saying, "Oh, yeah. This is this can't last forever. The Iran's Yeah, they're destroying so much of Iran. This Yeah, the end is in the end is near." And it's not. It's not. Larry, I think your understanding of these Arab states is so accurate because you don't see the way that they they see themselves is not, you know, based on the reality of who they are. >> Yeah. >> Because you have to understand your capabilities and your limits. It doesn't seem that they understand that. That's why they're talking about going against Iran. And what would be the benefit for these countries these UAE Saudi Arabia to go against Iran in a long run these people you know I don't know what is happening in the mind of decision makers in these countries but there's so much disconnected with the reality of what's going on >> well anybody that's ever been around them and I let let me be clear here this is I'm I'm not antihomosexual but if you've ever around these Gulf era S I mean here are these guys walking around wearing these white sandals with gold on them. I mean it really gives off a very I'll call it effeminite vibe. Uh and so they it's not they're not really a what I'd call a masculine group of people. It is it's very it's just it's weird. And and the reason I raise that is because within the Islamic culture, it is very much against homosexuality and and and that kind of practice. Sorry, my my dogs, somebody came to the door and and so now now they both decide to start hollering. Wait, wait, hang on. Let me tell >> Yeah. >> Okay. They stop. >> That was wrong. I >> say what? >> Yeah. >> Hang on for a sec. What? >> She needs a number. >> Oh, 8 8707. >> Yeah. >> Sorry about this. The >> Yeah. All the distractions. So uh but but no they they uh give off they in their sort of national policies they're very antihomosexual but in their own conduct they're very let's say gay friendly and and and you also see this this distraction between or this difference between you know they they claim to have this strictly religious society and man when they get to London they're chasing  and they're drinking alcohol and you know it's party all the time and that's actually what happened uh happened in Dubai that uh you know Iran Iran has said jokingly that hey we you know we've gotten you know as a result of the war we've gotten rid of all the prostitutes you know so >> right >> hang hang on for a second >> okay >> uh 5957. Sorry. >> Yeah, Larry. You know, the other point that Donald Trump was mentioning in this post today is the case of Distra of Hormos. He said that if they don't open it up immediately, we're going to hit all these, you know, electric generate generating plants on oil wells, old facilities together with Clark Island. We're going to go after that as well. But here is what was the response from the Iranians and they have responded positively and they're saying they they're opening up this trade of form. Iran responded positively to Trump's threat and reopened this trade of form only for two Chinese tankers. So, you know, there the >> Well, look, let's let's recognize the the lack of logic and consistency on the part of Donald Trump. I mean, he really is um all over the call him two-faced. We can call him Janice, you know, the Roman god that looked had two faces looking in opposite directions. That's that's Donald Trump. Because you know, two weeks ago, three weeks ago, they lifted all the sanctions on Iran, right? And so that why? Well, we needed to get more oil out there. We didn't want to have any sanctions that were preventing oil from getting onto the international market. Um, so um then here he is now saying, uh, we're going to destroy your oil. So that remember that oil we three weeks ago you said was unsanctioned you could deliver. Now we're going to destroy it. We're going to remove that from the market. >> So you're doing that at the very time when uh in the last two days the the price of oil has gone up. You know both Brent and West Texas Intermediate the the futures they've gone up uh two three four dollars. So it's one's up to like $115 I think and the other's up to 102. Well, >> sorry that that's going in the opposite direction. So, what what is it that you're trying to uh to accomplish? >> I mean I mean seriously, it is Yeah, I was just checking the Brent. So, the W the West Texas Intermediate is at 102 and Brent crude is at 114 and Murban crude is at 119. So yeah, you know, this so this is an inflation punch in the gut to the world economy. Uh and and that doesn't even begin to capture what the cost of diesel is. >> Here is Scott Best and Larry talking about this three foremost >> well supplied and we are seeing more and more ships go through on a daily basis as individual countries cut deals with the Iranian regime for the time being. But o over time the US is going to retake control of the straits and there will be freedom of navigation whether it is through US escorts or a multinational escort. >> You know it's it's amazing Larry when you look at the way that Donald Trump is talking about negotiations Scott Besson talking about the United States you know being in charge of this trade of remote and controlling everything. It seems to me that we're living in different, you know, sort of universes. You know, they're they're different from us. They don't, you know, in what universe do they live in your opinion? >> Well, is that >> you put, you know, that's the right expression. They live in an alternate universe. Uh, and it's it's not reality. the uh United States already tried to do freedom of navigation in the Red Sea. Open that up. How did that turn out? United States failed. They got beat by the Houthies. Well, Iran is much more formidable, much more powerful, and uh has many more uh options at at in its arsenal of weapons and ways to pressure states in the Gulf and to control traffic through the straight of Hormuz than the Houthis ever did. So, the United States failed to open the Red Sea. And here's the the Houthis now are threatening to shut it down again as well. So you got two critical waterways and I guess the last the last one sort of globally would be the Maloan Straits which is over in Asia. Uh so that this is really disrupting uh the the global supply chains across the board. Um it's raising shipping costs. Insurance costs are going uh through the roof. Um, and then the effect of that on consumers is that it's going to be a combination of much higher prices or the the goods that you need or want aren't there because they haven't been able to be put on a ship and and sent uh forward. >> I think you're muted. New York Times Larry reported that more than 50,000 soldiers so far the United States sent to the Middle East to fight. And how, let's assume Donald Trump finally goes with the decision of invading these islands, 50,000 soldiers. How is that going to play out for Donald Trump? And how is that going to gain something for Donald Trump? Because you know we have to see the capabilities of these people these forces in that island or in some islands in the Persian Gulf and the outcome politically and militarily for Donald Trump. >> Yeah. The uh this opens a whole can of worms in terms of exposing the fact that the United States doesn't even have a plan uh doesn't even have a clear objective. Let's let me take you back, you know, well before you were born to World War II. This the Pacific War had started after the Japanese attacked on December 7th, 1941. And by middle of 42, the United States had put together a group of Marines that were sent to Guadal Canal to take control of that island. Why? What was the objective? The objective was to get control of that airfield to keep and to stop the Japanese from being because if the Japanese had control of that airfield, they'd be able to then control a lot of the maritime traffic that would be vulnerable to attack. So that it was the clear military objective in the part of the United States. seize that island, get control of the airfield, and then you're able to pat patrol and uh and limit the movement of the Japanese fleet in that area. Um you don't have that kind of objective here. It's say, okay, what's the objective? Well, open the straight of Hormuz except they're talking about t attacking Car Island. Well, Car Island is well north of the straight of Hormuz. And so if you're going to attack CarG, then you have to ask the second question. How are you going to get your troops there? Uh if the troops, if the Marines are going to be used, that means they'll have to sail through the straight of Hormuz. And if they try that, they'll be sunk. So those Marines will never those ships carrying the Marines will never make it to Car Island. So, I guess the other option is to fly them into, you know, fly 5,000 Marines in to Saudi Arabia or Kuwait and then put them on amphibious boats and have them try to go across uh the Persian Gulf and to land. Except then they're going to be vulnerable to attack by drones and missiles from Iran. So the and the the the third option is well you drop them in via parachute except that's not the Marines. That's the 82nd Airborne. So what and once you seize the island then what? Well, uh, they're not going to have enough troops to actually fully take control of the island because there's several thousand uh, Iranian citizens there and and they're going to be fighting back and then once they get into a fight with civilians and start killing civilians, that's going to create uh, further international problems for the United States. Uh, and the whole question of resupply, how do you resupply? uh because uh any resupply via air is going to be dicey. They'll be facing the risk of being shot down. So then then you go down, let's say, okay, let's let's say they're not they're going to try to open KHM. And again, uh or take Keshum. Keshum's got 150,000 people on it. It's not a small territory. And as I understand it, it is actually connected to the mainland. So, it's not it's not a complete island, but okay, let's say you get your troops on that island. Then what? That doesn't that does not eliminate Iranian drones, Iranian missiles, Iranian mini submarines, Iranian maritime drones. So, those four things right there, and not to mention the uh the speedboats, the bog hammers that the Iranians have that can be used to attack ships. That that doesn't just putting troops on that island doesn't eliminate those threat vectors that Iran can still use to keep the straight of Hormuz shut. Or let's say they go in and try to take Bandar Abbas. All you've all you've done now is you've created a a a concentration of US military forces that can be easily and readily attacked. None none of this makes any sense militarily. You know, at least you could argue that in World War II in the Pacific, you know, the United States, they hit Guadal Canal and then they began uh you know, the island hopping. They decided they could take different islands to secure control of different parts of the Pacific. And in some instances, they realized, hey, all we got to do is just bypass the Japanese. Now, one just one interesting fact about World War II and in the Pacific, the the United States started uh its operations in New Guinea uh in 19 end of 1942, I believe. That fighting in Guinea continued until after the dropping of the atomic bombs in Nagasaki. So that that was an island that the United States actually never took. And I would argue that this kind of inserting ground forces could be sort of the new New Guinea uh for for the United States Marine Corps where they spent years fighting and not making really any progress to to quote bring about the defeat of Japan. That was one of the most, if you will, meaningless uh military engagements of of World War II. It went on for, you know, three and a half years and accomplished nothing other than getting people killed on both sides. >> More recent experience was what has happened in Snake Island. You know, the Ukrainians tried to, you know, invade the snake island and then Russia hit them and slaughtered them almost. >> Yeah. And then and then the same happened to Russia. I mean, it was uh, you know, you got this this chunk of rock that sits out in the middle of the Black Sea and near the coast of Romania and whoever gets on top of it, okay, you quote got control of it, but so what? What can you do from there? Because then you you're exposed to being hit by missiles, airdrop bombs or drones. Yeah, I I think Larry there is some lessons to be learned as you mentioned about the history of these sort of moves if they try to do that. >> But nobody is the Trump in the Trump administration would care about you know what has happened before. You remember when Donald Trump you know was elected in the United States they decided to do the same against Yemenes in the Red Sea. He Hegseth just re he did the same thing that the Biden administration tried to do before and he said this time around going to be different. We're going to crush them. We're going to destroy them. You know, you you don't see the people understanding the reality. They're leaving, you know. Yeah. >> They think that they're different. They're more powerful. They're different. Their decision making system is working better than what it was before. But do you, Larry, today as we talk today, do you see any military expert in the Trump administration who's able or capable, not just military intelligence, who understands the reality of what's going on that is able to go against the rhetoric in Washington, go against what Donald Trump is suggesting? None have been out, none have been speaking in public to that effect at all. They're maybe they're saying it behind closed doors, but so far all of the all of the commentary that's being made about putting in ground forces and moving forward on this with this crazy plan. It it's all, you know, delusional about how, you know, great our marines are and how effective they're going to be, etc. You know, I got a I got a note yesterday from um a retired uh US officer who was in special operations forces and uh he was he had done some he was he was in charge of uh sort of the the hunt for Scuds and other things back in 2003 in Iraq. and he he noticed that he said there's a real disconnect. If you go if you search AI and uh uh you know about the 2003 special operations forces hunt for Scuds and WMD. Oh man, you get these great stories about what was done by the fifth special forces group and by this this outfit and that outfit. And he said it it he said it's all and I'm quoting him. He says, "It's all complete It's all a lie. That's not what happened." Um and and he said, he shared with me, he says, "You know, we we received all these WMD um target folders that that that listed every site where they thought WMDs were and where what targets we needed to hit." And he said, "You know what? every one of those t and he said there were you know dozens of he's excuse me hundreds of target folders that were prepared by the US central command defense intelligence agency and the CIA and he said not one operational scud was found from those target folders not one and and that's the point that the a lot of times these the US military claims that is acting on the best of intelligence and it's not the best of intelligence. It's wrong. Completely wrong. And so they think, "Oh yeah, all we got to do is attack Car Island and that'll shut off Iran's oil and Iran will collapse or all we got to do is take Kashm Island and that'll open up the straight." No, just they're they're acting on bad bad intelligence. The war, Larry, is because of Israel. Because Israel wants And why? Because so far what we've learned from the IDF, they're not going to be if the invasion happens, they're not going to be part of the operation. So, is there anybody asking Donald Trump if the operation the whole operation is because of Israel, the security of Israel, so why are you know what? He's not putting them on the front line to to fight. We've been part of this, not just all of this. Part of this operation if they want to fight Iranians. This is the whole >> But I mean, look, the real Israel can't fight Iran with what? I mean, all it can do is launch launch these aerial attacks and with bombs and missiles. Um the the real reality is that Israel is suffering tremendous losses right now at the hands of Hezbollah. The you know when the history of this war is written particularly with respect to the defeat of Israel because that's what we're going to be looking at a a decisive defeat of Israel. They're going to point to the fact that Israel completely underestimated the capabilities of uh Hezbollah and that the coordination coordinated effort by Hezbollah and Iran was more than more than is Israel could handle the in one day alone two three days ago uh Hezbollah destroyed 21 Merkava tanks. I mean, these are the biggest, baddest tanks around, wiped out. And so, if you're destroying 21 tanks, let's just, you know, they I think they have a crew of four, but let's just be generous and say, so just two members per tank were killed or wounded. You know, that's still significant. And the odds are the the casualties are much higher. Israel is not talking about those. Israel doesn't Israel does not have manpower in its army that it can load up and dispatch to quote participate in a ground invasion of Iran. They're already talking about trying to call up 400,000 new reser. They've already got 300,000 activated. They want another 400,000. uh that that takes people out of the economy was going to further contract and depress the economy and they're already having push back people are sort of saying hell no I'm not going I'm not doing that. >> Yeah. >> I think the the problem is so serious when the head of IDF or the the commander of IDF says that the they are on the verge of collapse it means something. It's just the 10 you know red flags or you know what what in a short let's assume in it you know in it short period of time what can they do to you know to repair that you know to somehow fix it is that possible for the Israel today because they're fighting as we talk today Larry let's assume are they fighting sending some fighter jets over Iran to hit targets nothing more than that they're doing. >> Yeah. Yeah. The they've um it looks like the scapegoating process has started in Israel. So they're blaming the head of MSAD, a g a guy named David Barnea and blaming him that this is all his fault. He told us this is going to be a piece of cake. He told us that uh the Iranian government was fragile, that it could be easily replaced. And now we're caught. Uh so the just before we came on air when I I was on with the judge and at the end of the show they were picking up news that uh Israel and Hezbollah com I mean Iran and Hezbollah combined had just hit the Hifa oil refinery and it the whole thing was on fire. So that oil refineries out that that's a key source of uh fuel and oil for Israel. On top of the fact that now the price per barrel of oil is just going through the roof. And not only the oil, it seems that Iran is hitting the targets in Israel which would somehow making lot of problems for the for the air forces to take off. you know, just destroying those facilities that they're using to take off and that could be hugely problematic when it comes to operation in Iran and against Lebanon. >> Well, and yeah, and then also you have Hezbollah as well with its missiles and rockets hitting key military facilities. And now the Houthis have joined in. Houthis apparently are bombing or sending missiles strikes into the NGV. uh where you know like Deona and Nevatim uh so where Israel has some important military assets. So yeah, it Israel is getting hit now from three sides, >> you know, and and the goal in war is never you never want to be fighting a two-front war if you can avoid it because if you fight in a two-front war, you then have to start allocating resources, making decisions about who gets what because you don't have unlimited resources. So now Israel is actually in a forefront war. They're fighting uh they're fighting Iran. They're fighting Hamas. They're fighting Hezbollah. And now they're fighting the Houthis. >> And just just imagine that. And seeing what Ben Gir is trying to do. I don't know if you saw his video yesterday. He said that we have to assassinate Al Golani in Syria. >> This guy is just, you know, they're going crazy. You know, Napali Bennett wants to go after Turkey. He wants to assassinate. You know, each of them is somehow they're making lot of noises. You know, when you when you're fighting this way, it seems that you don't have any strategy by destroying yourself. >> Yeah. Well, the they're only the only thing they know is killing. They're they are they are uh I would describe Israel as like a satanic death cult. They dress themselves up in the words of religion claiming that there's somehow some fulfillment of of prophecy by the you know from ancient prophets and that they are the chosen people of God. Now there these are this is the spawn of Satan. You know the the because you you know there was this guy named Jesus and he said something by their fruits you will know them in terms you look at what they do that tells you who they are. What Israel is is a nation that is seized with killing women, children, taking the land of others. There's no there's no generosity, no humanity in any of that. >> But the Israeli people, Larry, they're experiencing right now something so different from what they have experienced before. >> Oh, yeah. They've never Well, they've never experienced this. Never. Not even during, you know, the wars back in 1948 that the Nagba uh they they didn't experience anything on this scale and and neither in the ' 67 or 73. Um yeah. No, they're it's it's new uncharted territory. >> Yeah. NOW is in a bunker. His family they're in Florida, you know. >> Yeah. Well, you you saw Tucker Carlson is staying on the attack against Netanyahu. Uh hosted Alex Gibney the other day. Gibney had made a documentary about the corruption of Netanyahu. So that's starting that's starting to get more attention. And I think what what you are starting to see in the United States is a real shift in opinion. But previously, I think most Americans were like very favorably disposed towards Israel, wanted to support Israel. Not now. That's moving the opposite direction. >> And the decision for Donald Trump is to stay with Netanyahu or leave Netanyahu. I don't see Donald Trump leaving Netanyahu because he wants to do everything to >> just go down >> to sync with >> Netanyahu and Trump are a lot of lot a lot alike in a couple of regards. Um Netanyahu uh was once he he was considered politically dead. You know, his career was over with the corruption charges and others. Man, he he he came back. And so the, you know, prevailing in an election gave him a sense of invincibility. I can do anything. You can't, you know, you can't stop me. And Donald Trump has got the same attitude. You know, the the failed assassination attempts create convinced him that man, he's he's a certain he's a the instrument of God and and he gets to decide what God wants and what God doesn't want. So, you know, they're they're both narcissists and malevolent narcissists at that unfortunately. >> Yeah. Larry, the other part of you know the war as you've mentioned comes to what Houthies or Yemenes and Sara is trying to do because right now they're talking about we have this Strait of Hormuz and the conditions that everybody knows what is going on there and if Yemen decides to you know close this do the bubble mandab in the Red Sea I don't know the combination of the two how is that going to be how is that going to influence the global economy. Are they going to do that in your opinion anytime soon? >> Um, I don't I I doubt it actually because for right now, my understanding is the Red Sea is effectively closed >> to commercial shipping. um going back to when the Houthies first started in December of 20 uh 23 to shut down traffic especially going to Israel there has been you know so right now it's not open to any ship that's Israeli owned US owned or going to Israel uh as a result of that and some of the attacks that they have carried out insurance companies basically stopped insuring ships said you know if you're going to sell through that you're going to do it on your own we're not going to back you. So instead, the ships are now taking the longer trip around Africa. So that's why I say the Houthies, the Houthies, it's already sort of closed in a de facto manner. Uh so they they haven't made it official, but it is for all practical purposes closed. The only the only the only thing coming out of it right now would be Saudi oil that's being shipped across, you know, piped across the the country from uh from the Persian Gulf to the Red Sea. >> But uh that's a limited volume. But if uh if the Houthies decide to start attacking that, and they they may very well, then that would further disrupt the world oil supply. Yeah, it seems that Larry that Donald Trump if they decide to invade Iran, it's going to be not only from the Persian Gulf. It's going to be they're talking about the Baluchistan and they're talking about the Kurdistan and all coming together and we see something I I think since the you know the the end of the Iran Iraq war something shaping between Iran and Iran Iranians and Iraqi people that we haven't seen that before you know the whole concept of having a war for eight years is making hatred making you know enemy but it seems that they all those you know animosity passed away and the way that they're right now feeling about themselves you know Iraqis about Iranians Iranians about Iraqis shows some sort of a strength and even with the Kurdish you know groups in Iraqi Kurdistan >> they're not going to be come in you putting pressure because they have these Iraqis going against them. They don't need even Iranians to fight them. You know, this is something new to me. Well, yeah, the again this is this is an area that the average American just has no knowledge of, unfortunately. um when the United States invaded Iraq and deposed uh dethroned Saddam Hussein, a Ba'ist, a Sunni, but he wasn't a religious guy. He was he was very non sectarian in that regard. uh the power immediately fell to the Shia groups in in Iraq, Shia, you know, Shia Arabs, but nonetheless, who had had u protection and support from Iran for the previous, you know, 20 years. And uh then all of a sudden the United States started trying to uh they they worked with the Dawa and I forget the the name of the other group but uh opposing them was the Shia cleric Makktad Al Sad >> and aka Muki. >> Yeah. >> His name is Mkhtad Sad. Yeah. >> Mkhtad. Okay. >> Yeah. and uh um you know he fought against US troops and again the presence of US troops in Iraq was illegal. It was a violation of international law but you know we justified it. Uh but uh you know that was where I think if you will the healing that had of the the the the damage that the wounds that had been inflicted as a result of the war in the 1980s again a war inspired by supported by encouraged by funded by the United States that that those wounds started to heal and cooperation between Iran and and the Shiau Arabs started expanding and increasing. And so now Iraq is in the position of expelling, forcing out these American invaders after, you know, 23 years, almost a quarter of a century. Uh, United States should never have been there in the first place and now they're being forced out. So yeah, I think this is uh the the alliance between Iran and Iraq is strong and I could see uh Iran backing Iraq. Hey, go ahead and take over Kuwait because again Kuwait is another artificial creation. >> I think in a short run I we would see some sort of turmoil in in Kuwait basically and Bahrain Larry because You're you're already seeing it in Bahrain, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> And Kuwait is so much, you know, because the escalation is getting to Kuwait. You know, yesterday we had the United States together with Israelis attacking not only steel factories, but also oil water facilities in the, you know, in the state in in a province called Huzan and which I know this I know this province and the city called half kale. In that city they hit a water facility and it had nothing to do Larry with anything militarily you know the nuclear program nothing >> just to bring suffering to the people that whole then Iran hit back at the salination plant in Kuwait. This is the new phase of the escalation which is so people need to understand I think it is so devastating if that escalates because the whole region is basically dependent on these dalination plants. >> Yeah. Yeah. No it so Iran Iran Iran can survive without desalinization plants. >> Iran 2% dependent on them. It's nothing almost nothing. >> But Kuwait can't Saudi Arabia can't. Bahrain can't. cuts are canned. So this is uh and Iran, you know, had had warned the west and and and Israel, if you attack this, you attack these sites in our country, we will come back and attack them in the others. It's going to be tit for tat. It will be eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. And the reality is the the Gulf Arabs are going to wind up blind and toothless uh before this is over. uh as I said now taking out the water you're going to create a humanitarian crisis and people are going to have to stop start abandoning you know they can't continue living there. >> Does it feel to you that Donald Trump is deliberately doing this because he want they want Iran to destroy these Arab states? >> Yeah. No. No. I I I the reason I say no is you're presupposing that Donald Trump has some sort of master plan that he's working from. This is, you know, he's he's just like a jazz musician riffing on notes. He wakes up, he says one thing one day, the exact opposite the next day. Again, what's what is the strategy? What's the goal? Is it regime change? Is it uh reducing ballistic missiles? is it is stopping the nuclear program. You know, Marco Rubio was on uh television earlier today talking about uh you know the danger of Iran on the nuclear side and it's like wait a second. uh he was presenting Iran as if they were a rogue nation except Iran unlike Israel is a signatory to the non-prololiferation treaty. Uh there are now moves in the in the Iranian uh legislature to say, you know, hell, we're going to withdraw from that. We're not going to continue to abide by that. And I don't blame them. Uh but it's it's Iran, not Israel, that allows IAEA inspectors into its facilities. So, it's just we're we're in an upside down world where Iran is constantly accused of terrorism and other acts which are actually carried out by the West, not by not by Iran. >> Yeah. As you mentioned, they're seriously talking about NPT and many people are in favor of leaving or withdrawing from NPT, >> right? Because after all, we have to understand that there's there has to be some sort of balance in the region. If Israel has nuclear weapons, nuclear bombs, who's going to deter that? Who's going to be these are huge big issues right now in Iran. They're talking, everybody's talking about, decision makers are talking about it. I think finally Larry what we will see is Iran leaving NPT because they don't see anything good coming out of NPT even you know the head of IEA saying suggesting somehow that the only way to destroy Iranian nuclear program is to you know use nuclear >> bomb these are this is so crazy you know the way he he's not even condemning the United States and Israel for their attack for the aggression on Iran. >> Yeah. Well, um the again the West has grossly underestimated Iran and you know it wants this cheap easy takeover of Iran uh to in order to take control of its resources. But but you know, we're seeing Iran has fought back very smartly with a plan and you know, by methodically taking out all of those radars, the groundbased radars that left the United States in a position where it had to rely upon Awax, you know, the airborne uh radar system, and that, you know, the destruction of one of those planes the other day significantly limits what uh uh what the United States and Israel can detect. in terms of threats like someone firing a missile. >> Yeah. Not only that, they hit the these refueling tankers as well. You know, these airplanes in in Saudi Arabia and it seems that they have good intelligence coming out of, you know, satellites. They're receiving the good intelligence. And how do you see, Larry, the way that Russia and China helping or cooperating with Iranians so far? >> Yeah, they they seem to be uh providing a lot of assistance. Now, I saw there's this um this uh Ukrainian or anti- Ukrainian site called Borique Man uh that puts out videos, used to do videos almost exclusively on the Iran, the Russian Ukrainian war, but now has been dealing with uh the war in Iran. And he he put out one yesterday claiming that the Chinese had not denounced the American uh invas attack on Iran. And I'm thinking, no, that's not true. They did it at the United Nations right after it happened. And then then they're claiming that this he claimed that they were Iran was preventing items being shipped out on Chinese vessels. Well, then we get this information. So, just because there's a lot of disinformation out there. You got to watch and just look at who's doing what. But but I think what's clear is both China and Russia recognize they've got a vested interest in making sure that uh Iran survives and that uh that the West is uh contained because both Russia and China know that they're next on the chopping block if the West has its way. Zelensky went to Saudi Arabia and UAE. He's trying to help these two countries to, you know, to defend themselves against Iranian drones. And what is he going to provide to these countries that the United States doesn't have, doesn't, you know, has not provided so far? >> Uh provide. He's not going there to provide anything. He's going there to try to make some more money and because he believes these guys got money that they can give to him. You know, that's what that's what's going on with this. Um, you know, you can't emphasize enough that these these are not real countries in terms of look at look at the population of Saudi Arabia almost, you know, is listed as having 36 million people. Great. except like uh 14 million of that 36 million are are not even they're not immigrants. They're people that have come from like the Philippines and Indonesia and Malaysia, Vietnam, Cambodia to work as slave labors and when they get in the country, they have their passports taken away. So they're not really a citizen of that country. So think about that. 40 over 40% maybe closer to 50% of your population are not really patriots of that land and feel a investment in it. They're just there to get a paycheck. You know th those kinds of countries don't survive long. How do Larry how do you see the way that Europe is trying to respond to Donald Trump's pressure on them? because they said Donald Trump is saying that NATO without the United States is nothing but he's asking them to come to the Strait of for helping Donald Trump but so far you know one of the most important in my opinion stance on the part of the Europeans is the the way that Spain is showing >> some sort of difference. It's a bold move on their part the way that they're saying no, we're not going to be part of the it doesn't matter how you know the United States is trying to put pressure, sanction or put tariffs on us. >> Yeah. Well, >> see something new. >> Yeah. The Spaniards today, I think, just announced that they're denying US use of their airspace. And so no no US air uh you know military uh aircraft that'll be involved with fighting in uh in Iran in around Iran is going to be allowed through Spanish airspace. So you know they're speaking out. Starmer Starmer interestingly enough he was pretty firm the other day saying that you know Great Britain's not going to get involved with this war. So um you know the US is stuck. It it doesn't it doesn't have a way out other than to surrender or you know it would be a tacit surrender but it would be essentially admitting that Iran won and Trump's not ready to do that. I think he eventually will have to do that but right now he's not ready to do that. >> Yeah. Thank you Larry as always. You're back. >> I'm back. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. We'll be I'll be around. We'll see you on Friday with Colonel Wilkerson. >> Exactly. And we're gonna >> and but this is this is this is going to be a pretty consequential eventful week. So we may we may be talking before that. >> Yeah. Yeah. That could be that could be I think. Yeah. >> You behave yourself. You behave yourself. Yeah. Bye-bye. >> All right, my friend. Bye-bye. >> Bye-bye.
