---
ingest_date: 2026-05-21
pub_date: 2025-05-28
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
thread: freeman
show: Judging Freedom
host: Andrew Napolitano
guest: Charles Freeman
title: "AMB. Charles Freeman : Does Putin Fear Trump?"
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
source_note: Operator pasted full transcript in Codex chat. Direct YouTube watch URL not yet recovered.
quality_note: Normalized to remove sponsor/promo copy and transcript noise; minor artifacts may remain.
opening_tier: host-tease
---

Hi everyone, Judge Andrew Napolitano here for Judging Freedom. Today is Wednesday, May 28th, 2025. Ambassador Charles Freeman will be here with us in just a moment on the intriguing topic of does Putin trust Trump.

Ambassador Freeman, good day to you uh my dear friend. Thank you as always for accommodating my schedule and uh joining us. I do want to spend some time with your views on uh whether Donald Trump has generated an aura of trust or not in the Kremlin. But before we get there, let's start uh with Gaza. Nothing seems to be slowing down the slaughter uh and starvation. Even the food that got through in the past two days, it seems the poor Palestinians were so starving they trampled each other just to get their hands on flour so they could get it home and add yeast and water and bake it into bread. And some of them were killed while doing so. Big picture, what's going to bring this to to an end? The only thing that could bring it to an end would be a cut off in American military support for the operation. There have been 940 American military deliveries to Israel since October 7th. 940. Uh this war is entirely an American financed and equipped uh war. It's actually not a war. It's an annihilation. It's a genocide. Uh the problem with the humanitarian aid is so great that the first person assigned to manage it for us resigned saying that uh the terms on which the operation was being organized uh were not consistent with any humanitarian principle. In fact, what is involved there are two million people in in Gaza more or less. Uh we don't know how many cuz many many have died but they're they proposed to have four feeding stations for 2 million people. Four feeding stations and these are military feeding stations. This is a plan cooked up by Israel of the United States has bought. Um, apparently local contractors in Gaza uh almost universally refuse to um to assist this um on the grounds that it is essentially a means of um tightening Israeli control and in concentrating the population entirely in the bottom fourth the southern fourth of of Gaza. So it is a militarization of so-called humanitarian assistance. It does not deserve that term and it is utterly inadequate to cure the starvation in Gaza. And of course, it's accompanied by continued sniping, bombing um and uh burning of children in tense. Um the situation is just um absolutely beyond control. And you're getting reactions internationally now finally to all of this with the Europeans in particular um increasingly threatened sanctions on Israel uh with uh with uh the main European powers um all lining up to recognize a Palestinian state in in June. U Israel is destroying its international acceptability. Uh but beyond that, it's committing amazingly evil, cruel acts uh of a kind that we really haven't seen since the 1930s and 40s. So we have one or two observations and then one or two follow-up questions on this. Four feeding stations for 2 million people. So, Metlife Stadium, which is the football stadium in the Melands outside of New York City where the New York Giants and the New York Jets play, holds about 75,000 people. They have over 30 feeding stations for 75,000 people. And the Israelis are suggesting that four feeding stations for 2 million people who've been starved for a long time is somehow adequate. And the American government is going along with that. Um, you mentioned the Europeans. Will the EU pressure on Netanyahu work? And, and before you answer that, I want you to watch this. It's a clip from Netanyahu from last week. In it, lamentably, he repeats the lies uh of uh October 7th that he's repeated many times. uh burning babies, raping women, beheading men, things that we now know from the research of Max Blumenthal and others in fact did not occur. But then he says something about what he thinks the moral equivalent of a free Palestine would be. And I'm just wondering why you think he's saying this, Chris. Cut number one. Free Palestine. This is exactly the same chant we heard on October 7th. On that day, thousands of terrorists stormed into Israel from Gaza. They beheaded men. They raped women. They burned babies alive. Free Palestine is just today's version of H. Hitler. They don't want a Palestinian state. They want to destroy the Jewish state. I could never understand how this simple truth evades the leaders of France, Britain, Canada, and others. They're now proposing to establish a Palestinian state and reward these murders with the ultimate prize. You won't be surprised to learn that Kamas thanked President Mcron and Prime Minister Starmer and Carney for demanding that Israel end its war in Gaza immediately. Now, these leaders may think that they're advancing peace. They're not. So, don't give us this talk. It'll be a peaceful Palestinian state. It won't be. Will any EU pressure on him affect him? Does he fear the formal recognition of a Palestinian state by Western European governments? I think clearly he does fear it. Um that's why you have the odious statement that he just made that you aired. Um full of lies, full of slander, uh full of nonsense. Um the of course he fears the Palestinian state. The entire premise of Zionism is the denial of Palestine to the native Palestinian inhabitants who the founding father of Israel, Bengurian, uh admitted were no doubt the descendants of the original Jewish inhabitants of of Palestine. Uh so uh this is hate speech. um accusing uh uh the the Palestinians of being Nazis is the classic inversion of the victim and the perpetrator, the perpetrator of the horrors in uh in Palestine, including the cons the basic uh imprisonment in a concentration camp of 2.3 million Palestinians in Gaza is something Israel did. uh the pilgrims uh that are driving people out of their homes in the West Bank, the riots in Jerusalem on Jerusalem Day. Um these are done by Israelis, not by Palestinians. So this is um as usual turning things upside down, blaming those who are suffering uh with the um the uh uh acts that cause the suffering and it just has no credibility at all anymore. Will the Europeans react in a serious manner? Um I've not seen a European react in a serious manner on much of anything for quite a while. So I'm very dubious. Um uh and I think however that the establishment of a the further recognition of a Palestinian state, there are about 150 members of the UN who already recognize Palestine as an independent state. What is significant is uh the statement that uh merits the new chancellor of Germany made. The Germans of course don't like being reminded that they c they create created a huge genocide killed 6 million Jews and 6 million liberals Poles and uh Roma and others. Uh they don't like being reminded of that and so they walk on eggs when it comes to criticism of Israel. But even Merittz now says there is no justification. Israel has no justification for the horrors it is perpetrating in Gaza. While the United States and Iran are methodically and patiently negotiating for uh a a deal or a treaty or an executive agreement involving uh nuclear arms. The president to the extent he's credible on this says progress uh is being made. I don't know how the enrichment number is going to end up since uh Mr. Witkoff at last time he spoke publicly of which I'm aware said zero enrichment and the uh Iranians need uh 3 or 4% for uh domestic non-military uh purposes which many countries have. However, while this is going on, as if to force President Trump's hand, the Netanyahu uh government uh is threatening to attack while the negotiations are going on. They're going on in Rome to attack the uh Iranian nuclear facilities. How does this play in the White House? Does is this what gives rise to Trump's uh disdain for Netanyahu? his perception that Netanyahu is trying to use him. Well, I think there's ample evidence that Netanyahu's prime capability is the manipulation of American politics and uh Mr. Trump doesn't like being manipulated. So, that's entirely natural. I'd add that uh not only is Israel threatening an attack on Iran during the negotiations uh but it has called up 450,000 men reserves uh to complete the conquest of Gaza and the extermination of the Palestinians there. Uh that's the purpose of the callup. Um as for the negotiations with Iran, I think we have a a very strange situation in which the American position wobbles constantly. Yes. One day Mr. Witkoff says um no you know it would be acceptable to have have uh enrichment to the 3.67% level but is adequate for nuclear reactors for power purposes. The next day he says no there can't be any enrichment. Which position is it? I mean this has become a constant problem in the Trump administration's management of negotiations everywhere. no fixed position, goalposts moving, wobbling all over the place as the talks proceed. So, the Iranians clearly um you know, hope for a deal. They they're they're hanging in there. Uh they're not responding uh with that, uh one might expect in the face of this kind of inconstancy in the American position. Uh so um I don't know what um but clearly Israel is exercising a veto on the talks behind the scenes. H before we um jump to President Putin's latest um or or President Trump's latest comments about President Putin, uh Cindy McCain, the wife of the late senator, is uh very instrumental uh in one of the groups that's providing aid to the Gazins or attempting to. This has nothing to do with the politics of uh of her late husband, but here's a very interesting uh portion of a very interesting interview she gave uh on Memorial Day over the Memorial Day weekend. Chris, cut number four. Well, five days ago, Prime Minister Netanyahu uh vowed to take control of all of Gaza, which seems to be a shift from going in, carrying out raids, and then withdrawing. We've seen the Pope speak out. We've seen the leaders of France, of Canada, of the UK calling the cutting of aid egregious. Netanyahu said criticism like that is feeding Hamas and really feeding anti-semitism. What do you make of that push back from him that criticisms of the state are feeding hate? What I do know is they're not feeding people. And the most important part of this is that's what we're supposed to be doing. I'm very grateful for anyone, the Pope, any of the folks that did did shout out and say, "Listen, we need to get more in, but I can't tell you as to what exactly what Netanyahu is thinking or anything else." What I do know for a fact is that we need food to get into Gaza to avoid an utter catastrophe. Went on uh to say that it wasn't Hamas stealing the food. It was the Israeli military harassing people as they were attempting to uh to get the food. I mean, none none of this is new, ambassador. It takes us back to the first question I asked you. What how does this end? That probably the only way it could end would be if Donald Trump picked up a phone call and said, "That's it, BB. We're not we're not funding you uh anymore." Well, um, Israel also faces the possibility, frankly, of a sort of st slow slow strangulation of its international relationships, including with Europe. I much of the world now considers Israel the most evil society on the planet. Um, and Europeans and others are are witnessing acts which are moving them in the in that same direction. I should note that Netanyahu um when he spoke was reacting to the murder of two uh Israeli embassy staffers in in Washington and you know claiming that this was an act of anti-semitism which is the the the line that uh the Zionist organizations have imposed on the media. It wasn't an act of anti-semitism. They were not murdered because they were Jews. They were murdered because they were agents of a state that is conducting genocide. Uh and uh so if you can't make a distinction between Zionism and Judaism, you're in real trouble, right? So I think uh uh you know this is this is in the end this is terrible for American Jewish communities because it basically makes them complicit or claims that they're complicit in what is Israel is doing. And some of them may be, but I don't think the majority are. I'm going to ask you for your take on President Trump's comments at the Morristown airport in New Jersey uh on Sunday. Chris, cut number three. Yeah, I'll give you an update. I'm not happy with what Putin's doing. He's killing a lot of people and I don't know what the hell happened to Putin. I've known him a long time. always gotten along with him, but he's sending rockets into cities and killing people and I don't like it at all. Okay, we're in the middle of talking and he's shooting rockets into Kiev and other cities. I don't like it at all. What do you want to do about that? I'm surprised. I'm very surprised. We'll see what we're going to do. What am I going to tell you? You're the fake news, aren't you? You're totally fake. All right. Any other questions? I don't like what Putin is doing. Not even a little bit. He's killing people and something happened to this guy and I don't like it. Can I follow up on that? A Russian commander reportedly said that Putin was almost caught in the middle of a drone attack from Ukraine. So, do you have any I haven't heard that, but uh maybe that would be a reason. I don't know, but I have not heard that. All right. A couple of things. Uh, one, how do you think the Kremlin reacts to ad homonym comments about President Putin? And number two, is it even conceivable that he didn't know uh about the attempt to assassinate President Putin? And number three, as Scott Ritter uh pointed out on this program uh yesterday, a decision like sending drones after Putin's helicopter, a decision based on where they knew his helicopter was going to be must have implicated the involvement of American intelligence. Well, of course, Scott Ritter is correct about that. Um Ukraine depends heavily on our intelligence support. The irony of this of course is that it is uh m as President Trump speaks about Putin killing people in Ukraine, we are killing people in Yaza um in vastly larger numbers. Uh the criminal reaction was uh characteristically reserved. They don't want to break relations with Mr. Trump. U I I think to go back to the question you introduced at the beginning of the program um they're very confused. They don't trust Mr. Trump because one day he says one thing, another day he says something else. And I I think what we're seeing is evidence of his frustration. Uh that Putin will not bend his knee to Mr. Trump that the Russians will not come to heal and that his concept of how to end the war and what the war was all about in Ukraine proved to be erroneous. So now he nothing's happening and he's he's he's angry. That's understandable. Is this war endable on any terms other than the four or five clearly articulated from day one demands of the Kremlin, which were reduced to writing and agreed to by the Ukrainians until President Biden and Prime Minister Yeltson persuaded President Zelensky not to go along with it? No, I don't think u you can overcome at the negotiating table what has happened on the ground. Uh the the terms that were agreed at uh Istanbul uh back in uh in late March uh 2022 were in fact considerably more generous than any terms that are now feasible. If Ukraine had been allowed to go ahead with the peace that it had had agreed, then uh a million Ukrainians who have now died or or been seriously wounded to the point of being disabled would not be. They would be alive. They would be hail and hearty. This war has been a disaster for Ukraine. Uh it has depopulated. It has destroyed its b its industrial base. It has costed its territory. It will cost it more territory. and more destruction unless there is a serious effort to grapple with the terms that the Russians put forward in December of 2021 and which were agreed at Istanbul more or less in in March 2022. Does do you get the impression that the president and the people around him whether they're the neocons which seems to be most of them or the America firsters understand what you just said or does the president view this as a real estate a I hate to say this because it diminishes the value of human life as a real estate deal. Well, there is a real question about whether we are capable of practicing rail politique or just real estate politique. Um, and um, we do seem to be quite concerned about real estate deals and a lot less concerned about human life. Um, and I think many people are very upset about this. Certainly I am. Ambassador Freeman, thank you very much for your time today. Uh, much appreciated. I'm sorry I missed your presentation in Newark, New Jersey, uh, the other day with our friends Ray McGovern and Scott Ritter. I understand it was very wellreceived. No surprise. Next time I'll surprise you and try and show up in person, but thanks very much for your time and we'll look forward to seeing you next week. Okay, keep well. You as well. Thank you.
