---
ingest_date: '2026-05-19'
pub_date: '2026-03-31'
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
title: "Col. Larry Wilkerson: Israel Might Not Survive This… END EVERYTHING… Israel & Iran Nuclear Scenario"
source_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQCTCUR9WHs
youtube_id: dQCTCUR9WHs
channel_slug: dialogue-works
source_note: Transcript pasted manually by operator after direct YouTube watch URL recovery for the March 31 Dialogue Works episode.
editorial_note: Operator-pasted transcript body; not independently verified as verbatim.
show: Dialogue Works
host: Nima Alkhorshid
guest: Col. Larry Wilkerson
thread: johnson
channel_url: https://www.youtube.com/@dialogueworks01
evidence_grade: transcript-bearing
---
# Col. Larry Wilkerson: Israel Might Not Survive This… END EVERYTHING… Israel & Iran Nuclear Scenario

Hi everybody. Today is Tuesday, March 31st, 2026 and our dear friend, her brother Carl Wilkerson is here with us. Welcome back, Carl. >> Good to be with you. I had someone this morning I've never heard from before email me and said, "If the judge kissed your head, I'd like to kiss your head." I didn't I didn't know how to respond. >> Yeah. Larry, let me start with something that we were it's related to the war that is happening right now between Iran and the United States. Something that has happened before the war happening. It was the case of Charlie Kirk. We various times you and I talk about it what has happened what were the you know the real what was the reality of the shooting you know the evidence everything but today we've learned from Daily Mail is mentioning that the bullet used to kill Charlie Kirk didn't match the rifle that they say used by Tyler Robinson and how is that you know it's it's So amazing to see cash Patel going various time he was asked if he's sure that the Tyro Robinson did that he said that they're sure there are a lot of evidence how can what what do you make of what's going on with the case of Charlie Kirk we know Charlie Kirk was against the war with Iran he did everything before this disaster that so-called Iran the war on Iran happening and he's not he's not living on this planet right now. He's not he's passed away. What do you make of what's going on? >> As you know from talking with Larry Johnson and probably others too, and I know from talking with both Larry and Ray McGovern and others, um, we never thought that this was properly presented. That is to say, we didn't think the shooter was the shooter and we didn't think the rifle was the rifle and we didn't think the bullet was the bullet. Um, I don't know if these allegations here are bringing this to the surface again and bringing it up legitimately and accurately or not, but I I won't change my view having heard the experts views and knowing something about rifles myself. There's no way this guy shot Charlie Kirk. And he certain certainly didn't shoot him from the position they're asserting he shot him from. And the rifle in all of its configurations, if you will, is impossible to have been the launcher of the round that killed him. So the question is, what are they hiding? And who are they hiding? >> Yeah. And do you think that this administration would reveal what really happened? Because so far they were so much they didn't inform the public opinion. He didn't inform the media what has happened behind the scene. What were the evidence through which Cash Patel for example said this guy killed Charlie Kirk? Because the evidence is all against him. What what were the evidence? What were those documents against him? So far we haven't seen Did you see any sort of document against this guy? >> Nope. I have seen nothing that proves to me that he was the shooter. Um, and I think we're looking at a similar set of circumstances to those that existed around a much more, if you will, important killing, uh, John Kennedy in Dallas in 1963. And that took a long time and a commission uh badly flawed that it was ultimately flawed in reality and packed as it was. But it took a lot of emphasis and a lot of people to finally determine the nature of the lie that was going to be told the the nation. I should say lies plural that were going to be told the nation. and the people who would participate in that lying from Earl Warren, the former chief justice who was the head of the commission all the way down to uh individuals whose stories not with their acknowledgement or their uh complicity were reversed such as the team that did the first autopsy in Dallas. All to say that that was a very very closely scrutinized process. not closely enough as it turns out, but it was and it was public and it was done in front of the cleague lights if you will. Um, even though it was a a falsification of the of the evidence, they went to some effort to do that. They've done been nothing with this. Now, you could say, "Well, Charlie Kirk wasn't a very important character." Uh, I'd say he was pretty important. I think that some of the things he said were absolutely vile. Uh, didn't like him at all. But when he began to shift, it was clear that he got a lot of people irritated. A lot of people very, very mad. Particularly Jewish-American billionaires, they got got them particularly mad. Uh so, you know, the next conclusion is as you went and figured out who probably shot John Kennedy, you know, CIA, military, disgruntled Cubans, mafia, you take your pick. It probably was a conspiracy amongst them all. Um, but this is a little different because it's not that public and it's not that scrutinized. It's simply Cash Patel and maybe some other people at the FBI. I don't even know how many people are even in on the investigation. So, why is it taking so long to produce evidence that people could believe? Are we going to have a commission? Are we going to have to get Cash Patel out and beat the truth out of him? Uh, does Cash Patel even know? Does he have a clue? Um, I I suspect he has the vaguest idea of who killed Charlie Kirk, not the vaguest idea. Now, they don't want to tell they don't want to tell Trump that either. They don't want to tell the American people that because it expresses their incompetence, but I don't think they have a clue who killed him. But I have some clues as to who I think might have killed him. That's for sure. Uh, and it ain't that guy with that rifle. No, >> it's it's Epstein in a small capsule, right? It doesn't impact Trump. It doesn't impact any of the Congress. It doesn't impact any of these important people, posh people. It's just Charlie Kirk. If it were more people, they'd probably be hiding it a little more droitly and they'd probably be manufacturing more evidence and so forth. But since it's just Charlie Kirk out there, who cares? So why go speedily? Why go accurately? Why even try to do anything other than railroad someone? But it's going to be increasingly difficult to railroad this guy because there's so many people out there like Larry Johnson and others who know it's a lie. >> And many think has happened since the assassination of Charlie K which was so strange. One of them was the way that Donald Trump was asked if you remember in white he was asked how do you feel about Charlie Kirk? He said, you know, about the assassination of Jo. He said, "Hey, it's good. Look at that building. We're this beautiful building that we are, you know, look at the way he's treating." Have you heard what what he says? >> Changed the whole tone. Yeah. >> About the head of the National Counterterrorism Center, the number two guy, I guess, in the hierarchy at the ODNI. He didn't know him. I I didn't know him. I I I I gave him a job. Uh well, it was, you know, I thought he was a pretty good guy. I gave him a job, but he's left now. I I think he's wrong. Well, you listen to him talk. Listen to the guy talk and tell about the telephone conversation he had with Donald Trump, telling him he was going to leave, the conversation Trump had with him in response to that. Totally opposite. Trump wants to you to think that he didn't even know this guy and it's just inconsequential that he left and he's wrong about the Iran war. He should have left if he felt that way, you know. And this guy is saying, "Well, I had a long telephone call with the president and I talked to him about what I was feeling and everything and we went back and forth for a while. Who's telling the truth?" >> I put my money on the other guy, not the president, because he's a proverbial liar. Today, Larry, you had the briefing of Pete Hegseth together with General Kaine, and both of them have >> Wait, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Just one second. I have a new analogy for you. >> Yeah, >> we've been searching at Eisenhower Media Network for, you know, analogies, historical analogies. Is it Hitler? Is it Caligula? Is it Nero? All these kind. No, those are all false. The analogy is clear. You may not remember this. I'll I'll test you. I see a few gray hairs. Maybe you do remember. This is the Sith Lord and Darth Vader. Trump is the Sith Lord and Exith is Darth Vader. He's Darth Vader without the redeeming feature of once being a Jedi Knight, which you may recall if you if you do know the movie, you know that he turns out to be halfway decent in the end because the Jedi Knight in him comes out. >> But that Pete Hegseth does not have that redemptive feature. He is Darth Vader and Trump is the Sith Lord and we are the Empire and all the rest of the people in the world are Han Solo's rebel force and they're going to attack and kill us. That's the analogy. Straight out of Hollywood, >> I'm serious. And these kids look at me like they don't even know who Han Solo is or who Darth Vader is or who the Sith Lord is. What are you talking about? Star Wars. What's Star Wars? Are you talking about Game of Thrones? >> Yeah, these are Larry. One of the one of the arguments on the part of Pete Hex and General Kaine was that they have hit the Iranian production, you know, military-industrial complex the way that they're not they cannot produce more weapons, more missiles, more drones. That's why the number of missiles and drones are drastically reducing as time goes by. Here is you know the information you know the graph of IRGC. It shows from March 11th to March 29. The number of the the blue line it shows the the number of drones and the red line shows the number of missiles. Even the number of missiles you see yes the day before yesterday it was 60 40 and you know it's all you know somehow the highest number of missiles being shoot you know yes the day before yesterday and the number of drones are going up and down but they're you know pursuing the same sort of trajectory do they really have any sort positive information. They're trying to manipulate without providing, you know, robust numbers to the to the public opinion because you have you when you say something, you have to put something out to show it. But they're making some sort of claim that doesn't get to the reality of what's going on. >> This administration has given a new name to lie and deceit. There's no question about it. Led by the chief man. He's the biggest liar of them all. Um, you know, I I got a list u a partial list at least and I think it's pretty valid of what I would call second tier targeting. The first tier they've already struck and rather devastatingly extraordinary accuracy, extraordinary devastation. Bahrain, for example, has no refinement capacity left. That was the oldest, largest refinery in the Gulf. Uh, it's destroyed now. I was talking to some people yesterday about what that means. Do they have to go in and snake out the actual piping and everything now? And they were saying, "Yeah, they've got to do they got to start from ground zero and go all over again for construction. A huge fortune it's going to cost them if they want to do it." So they were devastatingly accurate and they were devastating in terms of their array of targets and what I call the first tier of extracurricular missiles. In other words, not at Iran, not at Israel. Missiles not shot at Israel, shot at Herbiel, shot at Prince Sultan, shot at other targets. so much effectiveness in Iran or in Iraq for example that we have gone down to emergency personnel only at our embassy in Baghdad. So I got to look at this second tier which I think is probably pretty accurate. This is what they're going to hit if the states that have US facilities there continue to host those facilities and those facilities continue to be used in attacks on Iran. a reasonable proposition. If they hit this second tier of targets with the devastation that they hit the first tier of targets, we go into global recession for sure and potentially global depression because it is going to wreck the world economy. Not just Southwest Asia, but the world's economy. The one country that might be somewhat insulated from this and actually benefit from it is of course Russia because of the price of oil and such. But even they are going to be impacted by other shortages. and the rest of the world including the western hemisphere big time are going to be majorly impacted by the shortages as are some of our allies in the east like Taiwan who are going to be in incapable of working through this without some real help because of helium shortage because of other material for chipm shortages and ultimately because of no oil. Um, so I mean if Iran is saying, "Okay, China, your ships can get through, but Taiwan, your ships can't, that, you know, that's it. And then if the Houthis are really going to try to seal off the Red Sea again, and it wouldn't take much effort there to do that, because we saw the first time around, all it takes is really frightening the insurers and then and frightening the uh ship companies. We're in for trouble. We're in for big trouble." And I don't see any recognition of this looming disaster on the part of any of the administration. Not a single one of them seems to be seized with what they're doing to the world economy. Now, I may be wrong and they may back up any moment here and stop what they're doing. Maybe even call off this ground operation, whatever it's going to be, but I don't see any sign of that. And therefore, I don't see any sign that they recognize the perilous ground upon which they're walking. And this idea of B-52s going in and carpet bombing. Well, what do you think's going to happen when the first B-52 hurdles to Earth in flame? Um, this is not good, Nema. It's not good for anybody. It's not good for Iran to keep on being pummeled like this, but it's not good for the world. I won't even count the empire led by Donald Trump, but it's not good for the world. What we're going to do, we're going to plunge it into economic distress that might be years in the mending. >> Larry, >> I don't blame the Iranians. If they execute that second tier of targets, I don't blame them. I I don't blame them. You know, they had shot her two or three times before by, you know, they had sent drones. They'd sent a missile or two or whatever just to let the Israelis and the Brits know that they knew they were there. you know, underground intelligence facility. Well, this time they gave them more than just a warning that they were there. They knew they were there. I mean, they wiped them out virtually. Do that to everything else that they have on this second list of targets. It's Saudi Arabia. It's the pipelines. It's the Rostanura type uh facilities that deliver 8 to 12 billion barrels a day of oil. I mean, don't even talk about getting ships out of the straight of Hormuz. you won't have any oil to put on the ships, nor any infrastructure to generate any more oil. We're talking a real disaster if we if we move forward with this and the Iranians are forced to execute that that second set of targets. We know that Friday is holiday and you have Friday, Saturday and Sunday. If they want to invade Iran, go one of capture, you know, one of these islands in the Persian Gulf Coast straight for Moose, it's going to be on this Friday. It's because >> Good Friday. >> Yeah, >> he takes Good Friday. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Jedi Knight, Darth Vader, I'm going to attack him on my best holiday. God's going to help me. >> He just got back from Sandcom and he said that they say only thing that they're asking us to do give us more bombs. You know, he said that during this briefing, but Larry, here is what Eric Prince, the founder of Blackwater, you know, one of the contractors said about invading Iran. >> The Wagner Group equivalent in the Empire Car Island is going to be mighty thin. have to cycle and that's assuming you don't have any losses for maintenance. So yeah, your initial assault in a car island is going to be mighty thin because those aircrafts have to cycle and that's assuming you don't have any losses for maintenance or for missiles. Um uh do you do a mass drop of the 82nd on the Car Island? Again, that's uh that's pretty sporty. um and a uh an airborne invasion in a place that has thousands and thousands of missiles. Uh not to mention the Iranians have been learning. They've certainly been paying attention to uh modern drone warfare and have certainly implemented FPVs down to um the squad level. I mean, you see videos of the uh Israelis in southern Lebanon losing tanks, losing armored personnel carriers to the same FPVs that the Russians have been using with great effect in in Ukraine. So, uh it is again a fight against Iran. They're not Arabs. They're they're Aryans. They are a highly intelligent, highly uh skilled war fighters. Um and and he would not be the pushover by comparison that you see of the um of the Iraqi army that uh that worked. >> Yeah. >> The truth hurts. The truth hurts. He's right. He's right. I don't know that uh I don't know that they're planning that because I have to give you know I think I told you what I told Coen Pal one time and I walked in his office and I was in a little bit of a peak and I said let's never make an Air Force officer chairman of the joint chiefs of staff again >> and and he knew what I was saying because they don't know anything about ground warfare. They know nothing about ground warfare. Um, and so Kane of course is that and but he's got to have some army generals who aren't just chicken cowards. They've got to be telling him airborne operation on Car Island. Are you kidding me? You want to get 3,000 people killed before they even hit the ground? You want to get them plummeting to the earth with their parachutes burning? Um, I'm sorry. Th this just isn't going to work. And as he was suggesting there with the Osprey, uh, you know what the Marines call the Osprey? The flying death trap. Uh, one Marine said to me, "Would I be within my rights, Colonel, if I were embarking on an Osprey for a training mission and I refused to get on it?" Uh, I didn't know how to answer him. Now I have to say that it doesn't have any worse record than some of the couple of three aircraft in the past 50 years have developed in terms of killing people. Bad records in other words. But it does have a consistency and a a particular problem with the rotation from forward flight to hovering flight and back again with that clutch that I think everybody knows about. And so I think every Marine who gets on an Osprey takes a, you know, a moment and says to Jesus or whatever, Muhammad, whatever, please let me live through this flight. This is not an aircraft that I'd want to go to combat in like this where it's so crucial that everything be perfectly timed, everything be exactly the right altitude, the right air speed, the exact right landing profile, and so forth. because you are going to be interdicted majorly if by nothing else than drones, but certainly probably by some pretty powerful missiles, too. So, you're you're asking Trump is asking to kill a lot of Americans for no reason. No reason whatsoever. As one Air Force sergeant said to me recently in an email, "Why are we doing this, Colonel? They present no threat to us. So why are we doing that? That question is probably making its way through a lot of the ranks too. Uh in addition to the you know the religious business and everything there probably a lot of people who are just sitting there asking themselves why are we doing this? Not the pilots who are dropping the bombs and everything. That's one thing that I don't like about Air Force officers being chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. They don't understand the ground. They only understand the technology that releases the bomb and the pictures in the happy video that show them the bomb hitting. They don't understand what's happening after the bomb hits. They don't understand ground warfare. They don't understand what it is to be under that bomb. And that's bad. That's bad. Look at the IDF air force. Bloodthirstiest people on the face of the earth. Look at what they're doing in Lebanon. bombing hotels, bombing restaurants, bombing dry cleaners, bombing old women, bombing old men, bombing babies in their carriages. That's what the IDF is good at. That's what they do. That's what air forces do. Bloodthirsty air forces. Soldiers know better. Marines know better. And this is terrible to hurl them into this conflict. It's just terrible. And I feel for all of them. Yeah, >> not to mention the Iranians under the bombs. I mean, did did you hear Aranchachi in front of the UN emergency uh panel on Manab school? He told it like it was. He said, "We are evil. We are evil. We torpedo diplomacy not once but twice." He used that English word torpedo. We torpedoed diplomacy twice. In the middle of diplomacy, we bomb people. Palestine started it all. He said, "Palestine is the issue. It started it all." And he's right. And BB's still in there. And Natali Bennett is angry with BB because he's not killing the Palestinians fast enough. Larry, but the reality is that Donald Trump and Pete Hegseth and many other people around Donald Trump are making money out of these wars. >> Yes. >> You know, Financial Times reported that Pete Hegseth's broker looked to buy defense fund before before the attack on Iran. These guys are making a lot of money. >> Look at Mark Wayne Mullen. Mark Wayne Mullen didn't wait to be a senator to make a million plus. He made it as he walted into the Congress. He was already making money because he was already plugged into the Pelosia, you know, the insider trading. I mean, you this the you sometimes have a hard time defending America anymore. And then that report that's coming out, have you heard about the report that has been very carefully put together by I guess Brown and Brown University and some others. Since 2000, we have killed 38 million people with our sanctions. 38 million people, half of whom are children, women. 38 million people. Add into that Libya, Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia. I'd bet our toll is over Joseph Stalin's over Ma Satong's and probably over Hitler's in terms of people the empire has killed. This is unconscionable and was absolutely right in his damnation of this empire. I don't care what anybody thinks about Iran. You can think it's the most evil Islamic bureaucracy on the face of the earth. It does not hold a candle to the American empire. >> Yeah. Actually, Pete Hex was bragging today that how precise are the attacks on Iran and we are hitting, you know, strategic points in strategic locations in Iran. But the reality is, Larry, that they're attacking pharmaceutical companies, mostly producing, you know, medicine for >> Yeah. >> for the people. Yeah. >> He listed >> same thing they're doing in Cuba. I I saw the the the what's happened to Cuba yesterday in aggregate. It's horrible. One of the best health care systems on the face of the earth. I know. I toured their hospitals. I toured their Hermonospata. I toured their what John Bolton called a chemical facility was a bile level 3 facility that actually made really good medicines. They wiped out Japanese in in sephilitis completely. Wiped it out on the island. They did it all by themselves. Maybe they were helped a little by the Brazilians, but mostly they did it by themselves. They had >> We have Larry, we have a lot of Cuban, you know, doctors here in Brazil. They're they're amazing. They're amazing. >> And and they they're just broken now. They're broken. Now, this Russian tanker may give them a little bit of life. Um, I hope so, cuz it's got a lot of lot of energy on it, if you will, in terms of they they they were doing things like taking babies off respirators because they had to conserve the power and then hoping that when the power came back for an hour or two, the baby would not be dead. Larry, when it comes to the situation in Israel, we have a new report. You know, the guy who's in Israel, the Fox News, reporting for Fox News, he was reporting how this situation is getting worse as time goes by with this war. And here is what he reported. >> Get from the Israeli people that we talked to is to finish the job. They don't want to have to deal with this. They don't want to have to have their children raised in bomb shelters on Wednesday. Tomorrow, the Israeli people will mark the first night of Passover. And many of them will be having their Passover saters in bomb shelters. And it's just a reality that the Israeli people are tired of. They want these threats to be reduced against their country and they'd like to live in peace and stability. >> It's such a good point, Trey, because you know there's divided government in Israel. You got a prime minister of one side and you got a president of another side, but the one thing they agree on is the threat that Iran poses to their country. And I think that tells us, >> yeah, >> they're missing the point, though. They're missing the point. Those Israelis want Netanyahu to wipe out the Palestinians and wipe out the Iranians. That's the solution they want. They don't understand that that solution is impossible to achieve and that they're the ones going to be wiped out. >> And they're not going to be part of the operation if the United States decides to go underground on one of these islands on some of these islands. >> No, you won't find the Israelis being anywhere near that. They know better. >> And they're they're they're just getting a lot of casu significant casualties. the armored forces in Lebanon. I I'm seeing pictures that I never thought I would see about the IDF armored vaunted armored corps. Mosha Dian's rolling over in his grave. These people are unliming their tanks and running because their their column. They're very smart. The Hezbollah fighter, they eliminate the lead tank, eliminate the rear tank, then they take one or two out in the center. Then the rest are just sitting ducks because they're not even maintaining tactical distance in their columns because they're so used to not having to. So they're just moving in as fast as they can bumperto-bumper almost. That's extremely stupid. But it's extremely stupid especially under this kind of warfare because they're dying. I saw the haretses this morning uh five more dead from the armored corps in Lebanon and they're not reporting on all the casualties. I mean there there's a tight restriction on casualty reporting. Like I told I think I told you earlier the official list in the hospitals was 5,817 I think and then came out and said yeah but all but 137 of them had been released back to the bomb shelter or whatever. >> Yeah. Right. How were they released back? Minus a hand minus a foot minus an arm. I mean, don't tell me that you have 5,000 plus almost 6,000 in your hospitals and only 137 are there now and all the rest of them are just, you know, a band-aid. Larry, the when it comes to the policy in Israel, do you think that is it matter who's the prime minister of Israel anymore or do you think that >> Yeah, >> because all of them you see >> Yeah. I don't think there's a a relief on on the horizon. Labor's been killed. I'm not even sure what labor is anymore. Um, Yetin's I think assassination just sort of set them back so far they couldn't see the light anymore. So there's there's no leviting force in Israel, which is another reason why it's not a democracy. It's it's a it's a single party state. It's lood. It's lood and the allies it has that are even further to the right than lood. And I understand yesterday they were out there beating with with bull whips or whatever the uh Orthodox that were refusing to go into the lines, you know, and refusing to serve. I This is not creating a very healthy situation either that they're having to pound these people even to get them to serve. They're What kind of soldiers are they going to make? Are they just going to feed them into the caves and the tunnels or whatever and let them die? Uh I'm sure some of them probably would like to do that with them. Getting a free ride, not not being ser not serving at all because their religious beliefs. >> Israel is in turmoil. I think that's uh a light way of saying it. They're in turmoil. They've never been this hardressed before. It certainly is not a safe haven for Jews anymore. It is anything but a safe haven. Living in bomb shelters 24/7. Uh eating in bomb shelters, celebrating in bomb shelters. You come out of the bomb shelter, you have a real good chance of being severely wounded or dying. Um, you're seeing everything when you do come out, you're seeing everything around you a flame or destroyed, including now lots of civilian properties and buildings and businesses. You've had your people, another 400,000 called up on top of the 300,000 called up before. Who's running your economy? No one. No one. Your economy is not running. This is a disaster for Israel and no one is willing to admit it and correct it and move in some other direction. >> No, they're they're talking about southern part of Lebanon. They don't want to leave Lebanon. They want to, you know, to grab the the land >> and let's slide off and get Syria, too. You know, we we want we want that Syrian guy dead, too. We don't we don't want that guy in charge of the government in Damascus anymore. Let's let's make it chaos. We're going to make Iran chaos. We'll make it chaos. And then we'll just wade into the chaos with settlers. And guess what? Have you looked at the West Bank lately? They even have all they have IDF units now that are turning against the Palestinians remaining in the West Bank and helping the settlers to finish them off. At least that primmaaccia didn't happen. Maybe an individual IDF soldier might help an individual settler to kill a Palestinian or something or run him off his land. But now you got whole units helping them to destroy what's left of Palestinian life in the West Bank. You know, bloodthirsty people, bloodthirsty people who are getting their comeuppants. But with the case of the war against Iran, the situation is not going the way they want it to be because you see the United States is putting pressure on Poland to send their patriot systems to Israel. >> Yeah. >> You know, when you bring all of these systems, you know, after South Korea, right now Poland, they rejected, by the way, >> but it shows the reality of what is happening in Israel. >> Good for the polls. I I saw the list the other day. you probably did too of you know the 4 days left, 6 days left, 7 days left, 9 days left and so forth. It's a pretty gruesome looking list for the most critical munitions that are needed right now. That's the reason you're not seeing much going up now. The report out of Harets this morning was that the government is saying that it's husbanding its missiles. Well, that means two things. one, you recognize you're running out, and two, you know they aren't because otherwise you wouldn't be husbanding them, right? You know, you put this, oh, they'll be out. They'll be out soon. They don't have that many missiles left. Well, why are you holding so many of your missiles and not firing them when missiles are coming in if you think they're running out? Well, you're holding them because you know their supplies are still pretty robust. And this second tier of targets, their supplies have to be fairly robust in order to execute that tier. So if it's out there to be executed and it seemed like who who's the speaker of the maj um >> Kalib he made some statements yesterday that were very indicative of they're right at launching that second tier. So they must have plenty of missiles. >> They know they know the situation in Israel. They really a lot of intelligence they have you know coming out of Israel. Before the war started we all thought I was thinking that MSAD would have a lot of leverage in Iran but as time goes by it seems that they don't have anything in Iran. I think they got them pretty badly after that last, you know, remember Pence talking about the guy in the street, the Iranian protesting and the MSAD agent was right behind him pushing him. I think they found those MSAD agents and those CIA agents and they got rid of them and they found the Armenians and Azeranis and Kurds and others who were helping and they got rid of them too. So, they did some major damage to Israel. And I was told, I don't know this for sure. The source was a little questionable, but that there were quite a few that Israel put back in to try and reconstitute that line of intelligence, if you will, and they rounded them up forth with, got them, too. >> Yeah. think I think that's right because from what I've seen, what I've heard so far is that they're just blind. They don't know what they're doing. >> That's why they're hitting universities, you know, they're hitting hospitals, schools. >> This is the reason if you have strategic locations, you go and hit the strategic locations. You don't hit these >> all war crimes. All war crimes. Every time you hit something like that, it's a war crime. versus uh Archi said, "No one cares anymore." Apparently, starting with the Pal, he always takes it back to the Palestinians. Starting with the Palestinians, no one cares anymore. All the rules are gone. Niel wants Larry to make a new sort of alliance with Arab states to go against the axis of resistance. But when it comes to the new allian, you know, some sort of new coalition against acts of resistance, you have to have the army Israelis or not. And who's going to help them in in Saudi Arabia, in Kuwait, I would say in UAE, most of the people, the public opinion is against Israel. It doesn't matter if the you know the elites or the the guy who's running the king or the whatever they have in their countries. He the guy is not that much popular. He >> what a way a way what a way to set up the fall of your own monarchy. I mean no kidding. What a way to give Arab Spring a new life and a vicious life because I I wonder about Bahrain in particular because it's just been blasted and the fact that the people haven't taken advantage of that and just thrown the monarchy out on its fanny is a little bit remarkable. I' I've got to think that maybe some of the people uh were blasted too, you know, that they they really are kind of shivering in shock right now. I people have told me that I wouldn't even believe Bahrain if I went there that it's just so utterly destroyed. Do you Larry, what do you make of Arab states trying to we we've learned from Associated Press they reported that Saudi Arabia together with the UAE they trying to put to force Donald Trump to stay in the fight you to continue this war you know on one hand if you want to continue this conflict this war you have to have you know the weapons the bombs the missiles everything. This is one on one hand. On the other hand, it seems that they're ready to prepare to provide the United States to give money to Donald Trump and his administration, but the money is not going to make the bombs. >> No, >> it's a huge, you know, the process getting too much time time consuming. And >> I I think they're very frightened. They're frightened of their own people, of course. They're always frightened of that and they always keep a weather eye to the streets. But they're also frightened that if the United States pulls out and there is no rescuer for them and there is a reason if you think about it for neither China or Russia wanting to assume that position. So who else is there? There is no rescuer for them. and then their people smell that and their time is over. Now, the chaos that might occur in the wake of that might be worse than what was before, but I think I'd prefer to risk that to continuing those horrible monarchies further into the future. And the reason those monarchies have been able to continue is us. We've propped them up. We've given them the weapons to destroy their own people if they need to. and the Ptorian guards to do it. That's what the Saudi National Guard is really for. It's a pritorian guard for the royals. Um, so, you know, you're damned if you do and damned if you don't, but in this case, as as someone who likes to think of himself as at least having some humanitarian instincts, I'd like to see these people get a little freedom and so overthrow these people. Overthrow them. That's anathema to my government or it was to my government. I don't know. Compare the talk that Donald Trump gave. Do you remember the talk that he gave there in Riad? I think it was Riad. And he had all the potentates out there and he was telling them how he understood their circumstances and appreciated their circumstances and he was going to protect them and all this kind of stuff. And now look at what's happening. uh where do they turn other than asking him to be even more aggressive so they don't have an Iran at the end of it that's empowered to come over and smack them upside the head. Uh I don't think Iran would do that anyway. I think it's going to take years for Iran to recover from all this pummeling that we've given it. Rebuild its schools, its hospitals, everything virtually. Um, but that's I think their fear that post US presence and no other supplementing great power, Iran's going to take them. I don't think that's a fear that's justified. I I I really don't. So, they're just trying to save themselves, that's all. And I I go back to Pal telling me about Prince Bandar and about the royals in general and saying, Larry, don't worry. the Saudis will always go to the most potent power taking their money with them and when it comes to the end of the day for the Saudi royal family when it becomes untenable for them to be around anymore and the same applies to Jordan and Egypt and other Mubarak proved it in Egypt they just didn't consolidate it well they're gone they're gone and the implication on Pal's part was good riddance He wasn't comfortable with that relationship either. >> Here is what Pete Hegseth today said about regime change in Iran. >> Because regime change has occurred should be wiser than the last. President Trump will make a deal. He is willing and the terms of the deal are known to them. If Iran is not willing, then the United States War Department will continue with even more intensity. >> Yeah, the regime change has happened. You know, >> all you got to do is put a helmet on him and he's Darth Vader. Just put a black helmet on him and have it go. That's the way Darth Vader breathe through that helmet and he's Darth Vader. I mean, you can't make this crap up, Nema. We are the Empire and everyone else out there is Princess Leia and Han Solo and the Millennium Falcon and justice and truth and the galactical way, the prime imperative, as Star Trek would put it. That's who we are. We're the people the world hates. It's not just Pete Hegseth. Donald Trump is negotiating behind the scene with himself. It seems that Iranian >> talks to himself at night between nightmares. Yeah. And then they had, what did they do in Pakistan? They had the Egyptian foreign minister. They had the Pakistani foreign minister. Who else did they have? They had a couple of other people there. And they were supposedly talking about the war in Iran. Now, what the hell do you think they were talking about the war in Iran? They were talking about the United States and how dangerous we have become. >> And and just adding, you know, when you have, you know, the sec treasury secretary, you may you may expect some sort of sanity from Treasury Secretary because he has the numbers. And here is what he said about this trade for months. is well supplied and we are seeing more and more ships go through on a daily basis as individual countries cut deals with the Iranian regime for the time being. But o over time the US is going to retake control of the straits and there will be freedom of navigation whether it is through US escorts or a multinational escort. >> Yeah. So he he just described the situation exactly the way it is. If Iran wants you to get through, you get through. If Iran doesn't want you to get through, you don't get through. Now, can they maintain that posture indefinitely? Probably not. But can they maintain a sense of danger significant enough to inhibit insurers and shippers from going back full boore? Yes. probably for the indefinite future they can do that. Unless these ground operations succeed in some spectacular way, which I do not expect at all, the spectacular the spectacle will be American boys and girls dying. Um, but otherwise I think they can probably maintain this uh selective passage for some time. And he's talking out of the top of his head. We don't have the naval craft, the naval munitions, or the naval capacity to keep that straight open on a continuing basis against a still fairly well-armed Iran. We just don't. So, he's pipe dreaming. He's pipe dreaming at least 6 months down the road. And at the end of those six months, who the hell knows what's going to happen because Trump is plunging in the polls. MAGA is leading that plunge in the polls and there's no way the Republicans are going to win the midterms unless they cheat colossally. And I can't believe the Democrats will let him get away with that. I just can't. Not again. Yeah, we know that Egypt is making, you know, $800 million or a billion dollar a month through this sewish canal. I think Iran is preparing for such a thing, Larry, when it comes to this trade of for this reparation that they're talking about. >> Yeah, you know, they're already doing it. >> Yeah, >> as I understand it, they're already doing it. They're they're putting a a a permit cost on even their friends and people would and that's probably I mean Ahmadina Jod sort of suggested that in New York when we were talking that they should they have never thought about it but they should and maybe share it with others in the Gulf Bahrain UAE whatever >> Oman gonna be part of it >> Oman not >> that's the first one I'd pick too if I were wrong a decent country with a with an eye towards peace all the time instead of war. Um yeah it they should they should do that and law of the sea treaty would you know amend the the record with regard to that and charge just like Egypt charges for progressing through the Suez Canal and Panama uh charges for going through the Panama Canal. >> Yes. We whenever we talk about the war with Iran, I think we have the in in the background, we see the threat of using nuclear bombs. Larry, >> yeah, >> I think the the threat of, you know, the possibility of use the use of the nuclear bombs is still there. And as long as Israel is in a desperate situation, we know what is going on in Israel. The population is not happy. As we've seen in this report on Fox News, the population is suffering a lot because they're in the bunkers. Oh, and you see the casualties on the border with Lebanon, how Lebanon is somehow dominating, you know, IDF and you see the pressure from Iranian missiles. So if if out of all these you know measures Israel decides to use nuclear weapons, what is your understanding of that scenario? >> I I I understand it simply from a military perspective that as I've said before, one or two wouldn't be sufficient to influence decisively the situation. So, I would look at uh Israel targeting those facilities that it thinks it knows are productive of missile firings in whatever way on rails, underground, whatever. Um, and in whatever terrain, mountain mountainous terrain in most cases. And that would be quite a few nuclear weapons. Uh, at least 50 probably. And so that's really not just letting the genie out of the bottle, that's asking for retaliation. Um, and it's asking for retaliation from more than one power in the region. Even um yesterday we got some reports that S500s were being delivered along with Russian Russians to operate them. Uh that would put F-35s that' put everything in in jeopardy. 600 mile radar range I think uh see them coming from 600 miles away. You you can pop an F-35 anything you want with that. Um if that's I don't know that that's the case. We haven't been able to verify. The report was S500's in quantity and Russian technicians to operation. Um, so anytime you could introduce something into this conflict short of nuclear weapons, that would be maybe not ultimately decisive, but it would certainly be tactically decisive at the moment and probably several moments after that. It cause us to have to readjust a lot of things. You wouldn't fly any B-52s over, for example, which Trump is threatening now. He's put B-52s apparently on alert to go over there and drop carpet bombs, you know, um, and the other things. The B-52s can carry the air launch cruise missile, I think it is, the ACLM, uh, and other things like that. So, they don't have to necessarily overfly Iranian territory. Uh, and then you've got, uh, is it Lincoln? I think Lincoln's still sitting off thousand kilometers or so in the Arabian Sea. And they haven't tried anything yet because at that distance, you know, do the math on it. At that distance, even a a fairly significantly fast and well, more than fairly significant, a very fast missile with a carpet bombing type warhead on it. It has trouble with the flank speed of a carrier full up is over 33 knots. That's really fast for a big platform like that. So, you can get out of the way of the missile as it were. It can't it can't target you that fast in its terminal phase if you're going that fast and you're maneuvering too. That's how they lost the plane in the Red Sea, for example. They their arc of turn was too sharp and the plane fell off. Well, they'd batten down the hatches or they just wouldn't do anything just trying to evade the missile. So, you wouldn't want to, you know, you wouldn't want to uh waste a couple of those missiles knowing they were going to miss at that extended range. You come in any closer and that gets a lot easier. Gets a lot easier for the missile to hit you and for you to get up flank speed and and get away from it. So, this has got lots of dimensions to it that haven't been explored yet. one of which is a good lucky hit on an aircraft carrier and 5,000 Americans did and one fell through. Um, there are so many things that could happen to complicate this war. What would American peop what would the American people's support be if a main battle cruiser like that you know capital ship we used to call them an aircraft carrier in this case went down with 500 5,000 men and women dead um would the American people's view change because they don't support this war now not in majority they don't support this war would they shift and suddenly support it because of those deaths I don't know the American people can be very fickle sometimes So, I don't know. I don't think they would. I think they would make their nonsup support even more profound if that were to happen. They'd start wagging their fingers and saying, "See, we told you you shouldn't be doing this. You've just killed 5,000 men and women." Uh, I don't know. There's so many different things in war that, as Claus points out repeatedly, you just don't know when something's going to change the dynamics. Powell used to call it the CNN effect. You know what he meant by that? A single soldier or marine on the battlefield. Filmed by CNN doing something might change the whole prospect of the war. Think about Moadishu 93 was it? When that warrant officer was dragged through the street, burned and wounded badly and dead, ultimately pulled from the helicopter, Blackhawk down, and how that changed Americans views of that conflict. And Clinton got out faster than Greeze Lightning. He gave the commander an order to withdraw under pressure and do it tomorrow. And so that's the CNN effect. You don't know about that. the camera catches that that single little tactical episode and all of a sudden the people's support for that war goes away. You never know when something like that's going to happen. For example, Car Island ospreys burning, Marines dying, paratroopers in the air with their parachutes of flame. Those kind of scenes that'll get the American people on President Trump's back like  on a stick. So, you never know when something like that's going to happen and change the whole complexion of the war for one side at least. >> I think for the case of Donald Trump, you have to say Fox effect, not CNN effect because Yeah, you're right. You're right. The Fox effect. Yeah. Maybe Fox is the only one with enough guts to go over there. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Did you Did you see my article on the front page of the Washington Post or >> No, I haven't seen >> It wasn't my article. It was Michelle Bourstein, the religious reporter for the Washington Post, quoting me in the article. She called me an admiral. Admiral Wilkerson. Thanks for the promotion. But that article was the first article talking about Hegseth and his prayer meetings at the Pentagon and talking about how Trump is tolerating that, how unconstitutional that is. You know, it was the first article. It was above the fo left side front page of the Washington Post. That's the first time we've been able to get anything in the mainstream media. which is just amazing together because they don't like, you know, the people who are criticizing. >> No, we we are traders. We're traders. We're traders just like Bobby Lee was a trader. Only Bobby Lee was really a trader. >> The onlybody in this system, the only one who's not trader in this system is Lindsey Graham, who's just >> Yeah, he's straightforward. >> The guy is >> Yeah. I'm being told by people in my home state right now that not only is I think she's a pediatrician, the woman who's running against him as a Democrat, not only is she gaining ground, but also the guy in the primary that is running against Lindsey Graham in the Republican primary is worse than Graham, but he's tolerable. So they think there's a chance that he might unseat Graham in the primary before he even gets to the election. >> He's he's maggot through and through, but but he's a little, you know, he's not a a weird dude like Lindsay is. >> Lindsay is just hybrid guy, you know? He's just Democrat, Republican. Is he doesn't matter for >> it doesn't matter. He reminds me of John >> just establishment. He's he's the establishment. I think part of the establishment >> he he's he's strange character really. He is he he could only be from South Carolina. This is the state that fired on Fort Sumpter. This is the state that the consil general reported back to the British. You don't want a lie with these people, you know, from Charleston. I mean, that's what he was saying to the prime minister and the foreign minister of Great Britain. He was saying, "You don't want an alliance with these people. They're horrible people." >> Thank you. Thank you, Larry. >> And we're going to talk again on Friday. Let's see what would happen. And it seems that the if they go, if they want to invade, if they want to go underground, it's going to be on Friday if it happens. >> That's what I think that's what Larry thinks. Yeah. >> Yeah. Let's see. >> We'll see. In the me in the meantime, have some poo poos. >> Yeah. >> What do you call poo poo? What do you call poo? >> I really hope they don't do that because, you know, it's just >> Oh, >> we know. I know the I I think I'm sure about the outcome. The outcome is not good. You're killing people. Why? Why are you doing this? That's the >> have nothing to do with Donald Trump. >> That's the fundamental question. Why are we doing this? >> Why are we attacking mercilessly a country who presents no viable threat to the United States of America? Why are we doing that? And the answer that it's Israel has a grain of truth to it, but I don't think it's the full answer. It's not the full answer. Maybe the full answer as the speaker of the Majiss and the foreign minister suggested is that we're just plain evil. >> Yeah. Thank you, Lori, and see you soon. >> Take care. See you Friday. >> Take care. >> If I'm still alive. >> Sure. We're gonna talk. Yeah. Hey, take care. Bye-bye. >> Take care. Bye-bye.
