---
ingest_date: 2026-05-20
title: "AMB. Chas Freeman- Trump: Israel or America First?"
host: Judge Andrew Napolitano
guest: Chas Freeman
pub_date: 2025-11-10
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
thread: freeman
show: Judging Freedom
channel_slug: judging-freedom
source_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lhvwsU2ab7E"
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
status: raw-input
source_note: Transcript pasted manually by operator after automated YouTube caption fetch was blocked during the Napolitano November 2025 densification pass.
quality_note: Normalized to remove sponsor/promo copy and transcript noise; minor artifacts may remain.
opening_tier: host-tease
---

# AMB. Chas Freeman- Trump: Israel or America First?

## Transcript

Hi everyone, Judge Andrew Napolitano here for Judging Freedom. Today is Tuesday, November 11th, 2025. Ambassador Chaz Freeman will be with us in just a moment on what's behind Donald Trump. America or Israel first?

Ambassador Freeman, welcome here. Uh my dear friend, before we get to America or Israel first and the government of Donald Trump, why was an ISIS monster greeted in the White House yesterday? Well, I think uh President Trump had two objectives. One of which he achieved, which was to enlist uh uh Shah, the now the president of Syria, former jihadi and brutal murderer um in the cause of combating the Islamic State, the remnants of which still exist in Syria and Iraq. and uh uh of course it has also metastasized into uh the Satel the northern region of subsaran Africa. So he achieved that objective there there will be cooperation uh against ISIS. Uh the second objective um was to bolt Syria onto the so-called Abraham Accords. That is far more difficult and didn't happen. Uh Israel doesn't have any agreed borders. It's a a state that um constantly expands and it's expanding into Syria. It's also attempting to fragment Syria to make a an alliance between the Drews along its border and the Kurds, the so-called Syrian Democratic Forces uh in the Kurdish part of Syria. And um these purchases are so much so closely at odds, so completely at odds with those of the Syrian state and Syria's other patron of Turkey that uh I don't think they're very likely to be achieved. Anyway, they weren't at the meeting yesterday. Uh so u this is actually a judge not that uncommon in history. Um Churchill said he would uh make a pact with the devil if the devil would help him against Hitler. He did make a pact with Stalin. So did we. Um guilty of murdering far more many people than Ashara did. Um uh the leaders of Israel um Bean and Shamir and others were all terrorists. They murdered people uh during the uh struggle to establish the Israeli state. And yet uh they were washed clean. And uh I guess if you're a terrorist and you win, you're no longer a terrorist. I guess to uh George III, George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, James Madison were terrorists. Well, indeed. In fact, I think it's fair to say that our war of independence, our revolutionary war, was very much a civil war. And people don't realize that after the uh after our independence about onethird of the European white population uh of what became the United States immigrated went to Canada or the Bahamas or Australia or New Zealand or elsewhere. Uh and uh and that was because uh the terror uh on both sides was truly dreadful. Um people were murdered in their beds. They there were women and children were slaughtered. houses were burned down with people in them and um and uh so war is not pretty under any circumstances. Here's an example of the split in the MAGA uh base. Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Green once the president, one of president's staunchest supporters. I'll read this since it's a full screen. The new leader of Syria is a former al-Qaeda terrorist wanted by our government who was meeting with President Trump today. This is yesterday at the White House on the US Marine Corps's 250th anniversary. He rose to power in December 2024. Sanctions were lifted off Syria in June and many Christians and minority groups have been killed before and after sanctions were lifted. Let me stop here. Here's her point. He's still a terrorist. He's still slaughtering Jews, Alawites, and Christians. I I get it that war is a messy uh thing. War is hell, and you have to do these things to win. But do you still slaughter innocents after you win? That's her point. Let me No, it's a val it's a very valid point. The human rights situation in Syria is deplorable and all of the groups you named are indeed being subjected to outrageous attacks by members of the coalition that supports Osara. It's true. Um so um that is uh that is not an unfair uh criticism. I note, however, that uh uh Miss Green does not um mention that the sanctions have been taken off Syria and Shara got into the White House at the insistence of Israel. Let me finish the screen. S this is very interesting. Syria is the oldest home of Christianity outside of Israel. The Apostle Paul met Jesus on the road to Damascus. Yeah. One of the most famous New Testament scenes. I pray the persecution ends not only in Syria but all around the world. However, I would really like to see non-stop meetings at the White House on domestic policy, not foreign policy and foreign countries and ciders. I get it. But I also get the the fact that the MAGA base, the president's base understands that yet again he's doing this at the behest of Israel. Does Netanyahu have his eyes on Damascus ambassador? some of the people in his uh coalition do. Uh they've talked about annexing Damascus. Israel is pushing its border very close to Damascus. It obviously is not comfortable with a Syria that has any military capability at all even to defend itself, let alone attack Israel. So, um, this is long-standing Israeli policy and part of the greater Israel project that people like, uh, Isel Smotrich um, advocate. They want to take uh, all of Egypt east of the Nile, part of Saudi Arabia, all of Jordan, um, all of Syria and Lebanon, and part of Iraq to join under their control. So this is an imper not just a colonial venture uh by Europeans settling the Middle East. It's a it's an imperial adventure too. We're going to uh segue into Venezuela for a couple of minutes. But as an introduction to that subject, here's the uh president of Colombia ranting and raving about a potential attack on Venezuela, an attack on Colombia, and he mentions Syria. Cut number eight. A clan of pedophiles wants to end democracy in Colombia. Harsh. But that's the reality. And so that the list doesn't come out. They send armored vehicles to kill fishermen from this city and to threaten the neighbor whether dictator or not. How that the people of Colombia are going to applaud if they invade their brother who is not the president but the people of Venezuela. A president of Colombia who does that. president cursed by future generations because he will never be forgotten as a traitor. The government of Venezuela has made many criticisms, but I do not mock the people of Venezuela, nor do I set a trap so that the people of Venezuela fall into the snare of an invasion that is only after their oil. What they want is more greed and violence to turn this beautiful corner of the South American continent into a Syria, an Iraq, a Libya full of slaves, of slave markets, of new black people. No. The list of Stein's friends which they don't want to appear in the United States, wants to use us here with violence so that the people of the United States don't think about their own government, but instead become more xenophobic and racist. the ideas of a superior race and other false ideas and they use us so they don't have to discuss their own problems. Talk about cander. Will the will Russia aid Venezuela if and when the US attacks? Well, it already has begun transferring weapons or we we're told that uh some heavy lift aircraft have brought enhanced air defenses for Venezuela. And u I think there is a real danger if we do get into a war with Venezuela that it will be like the Spanish civil war was in the 1930s, a catalyst for a global conflict and not just Russia. um other countries, neighboring countries, Brazil, uh very concerned about what we're doing with Venezuela, as obviously Colombia is, as we just heard. And um you know, I think it's quite remarkable uh our president, who's only been in office for a very short time, has managed to make enemies of the major countries in Latin America. our former uh closest cooperator for example in counter narcotics Colombia. Uh Brazil is emerging as a counterweight to American influence at least in South America. Uh in the Caribbean basin we have returned to the sorts of policies that we had the beginning of the 20th century where we just lorded it over everyone and invaded them and occupied them and displaced their governments. Will we have uh made the en an an enemy of the two greatest countries in Africa? Nigeria with 220 million people uh headed toward a billion people by the end of the century, a major power in the making. uh South Africa which we've also alienated um uh and uh let's not get into the mess in Europe where Victor Orban turns out to be our closest friend and just visited the Oval Office. Um we're still mired in the Ukraine Ukraine conflict. Um the president's efforts to approach Russia um have not worked. uh and uh we have at best a very chilly truce with China for one year if that. Um uh so uh and I think the world is basically at this point um they're not laughing at us as President Trump and his campaigns alleged they were, but they're wincing and they're u concerned that they may be victimized by us. You just heard that from the president of Colombia. Yes. The Epstein files, which I think is quite correct. Yes. I don't think he's right about the US wanting to go after the oil. I think the main point here is a power play to show everybody that we can shove them around. It will. And if we can do that with Venezuela, then Cuba will fall, we think, and so forth and so on. But but from your uh experience as an assistant secretary of defense, can the United States successfully invade Venezuela or is Donald Trump going to get us into another Vietnam? Well, if we do invade, it will be another Vietnam, another Afghanistan. Uh the record is very clear. Uh we may have the a wonderfully technologically uh advanced and disciplined military force, perhaps the most lethal on the planet, bar none, but we have no record of success against u guerrilla warfare, which is what we would confront. back to um the Middle East. Is Trump politically free to shed his mantle of Israel first of a zealous support of Zionism. On the contrary, um because so many other factors are at work uh eroding his popularity, um you can see the polls uh indicating this disapproval ratings are very high now. He's he's more dependent on his uh Zionist oligarch supporters um than ever and uh and in very much in their clutches. I don't see how he gets out from that. What happens when the United States government puts the uh political needs and interests of a foreign country above the bonafide, legitimate and promised needs of the American people? Well, you get a domestic reaction which Marjorie Taylor Green exemplifies even within the Republican establishment um which she's not part of. um uh you get uh blowback from young people in the United States who think that uh they don't want anything at all to do with Israel, whether they're whether they're Jewish or Christian or whatever they are. And uh you get uh you get um blowback across the board on the issue of whether the political elites listen to common folk or pay any attention to their requirements. You get results in elections like the one in New York City which is basically a repudiation of the u current American political establishment but you also get reactions abroad and uh I've talked a little bit about some of those there's a sense of apprehension about that the United States may be in fact certifiably insane and you have a powerful article by Max Boot a Russian immigrant neoconservative very much on the right in the Washington Post the other day saying that the Trump foreign policy is simply impossible to explain. It has it is so incoherent and so malleable, so changeable uh that no one can figure out what to do. I think he shoots from the hip day by day. I agree with you. I don't think there's any coherent ideology or even goal except to satisfy the president's needs and urges from day uh today. But look at all these special envoys he has appointed to bypass uh the secretary of state. The personal antipathy that the secretary of state Marco Rubio has for him is well known and well uh documented. His ambitions to succeed the president are well known and well documented. his hands can't be dirtied by any foreign policy uh failures of uh of Donald Trump because he'll have to attempt to account for them when he runs in uh 2028. And so we have the son-in-law Jared Kushner, the the buddy Tom Barrick. Uh there's another fellow in the Middle East name escaping me. And then of course there's Steve Lickoff. All these people are not FBI vetted, not Senate confirmed. They don't draw a salary. They don't work for the government, but they speak for the president to foreign leaders. All true. Uh this is a government u I mean, let's let's uh let's be honest. This is a corrupt businessman who has brought his cronies into the government and they're all doing very very well financially piggybacking on uh the government and and the policies of the government that they are able to redirect. Um so uh this is uh arguably the most corrupt government we've had since perhaps Ulyses Srant right after our civil war. Um and um so um this doesn't doesn't u uh generate much um uh praise or enthusiasm from anyone other than those who are on the make inside the government. Here's uh a member of the Knesset arguing that the government of Prime Minister Netanyahu uh is the most Israel corrupt government Israel has had in the past 30 years. Chris cut number seven. I blame you Benjamin Netanyahu. I blame you for the mindset in October. The greatest disaster this country has ever known happened on your watch. EVEN IF you sleep with a clear conscience, we will not forget. We will cry out over the abandonment and a state commission of inquiry will be established. I blame you Netanyahu. Your personal corruption has become a national plague. Every corrupt person becomes your partner. THE BIGGER THE FILE you have on someone, the more convenient they are for you. I blame you, Netanyahu, because you have forgotten what it means to be Jewish. Trump returned hostages in your place while you shamelessly were busy trying to get him to grant a pardon. I blame you, Netanyahu. Racism has always served you. IT HAS TORN US APART FROM WITHIN. YOU TURNED HALF THE NATION into an enemy. We will cleanse the poison you have poured here for 30 years. We will return to being a united society. I BLAME YOU, NETANYAHU. I blame you, Netanyahu. Yes. Wow. Powerful. Um, well, there's on trial for egregious acts of corruption. Um, and uh I I don't remember how many counts there are against him, but it's a large number. Um and uh so I think many Israelis probably agree with that member of the Knesset. Well, there is certainly the impulse there for a commission of investigation, which of course Netanyahu will resist uh mightily because the crosshairs of that investigation will be on him as to how October 7th happened and then how everything was handled thereafter and how many opportunities he had to return the hostages but instead chose uh the slaughter uh of uh of genocide. I I guess it's hopeless here in America as long as Donald Trump uh is president. I don't know. Far far be it for me to wish the Democrats to control Congress, but it might be a break on his excesses. Well, it's uh arguably unhealthy to have all three uh separate powers of the government dominated by the same group. And we have, let's not forget, we have a Supreme Court which is beholdened to and responsive to uh Donald Trump. Um the Congress u uh is a rubber stamp under him basically. Um uh I held no brief for the Democrats. I think um it's only recently that they've begun to make arguments for things as opposed to simply opposing Donald Trump um which uh you know doesn't get you that far. Um I suspect we'll have a midcourse correction in 2026 in the elections. uh and uh I think the president is well aware of that and um and again I think that drives him not to change his positions to take greater account of public opinion but it drives him even closer into the embrace uh of the neoconservative uh oligarchs and Zionists who uh who who have been so generous to him uh with their campaign donations. I guess uh we are we are stuck with um someone who's beholden to his donors, one of whom he lorded in the Knesset is having much to her embarrassment. I don't know if this number uh is true uh $60 billion in the bank. Oh well, life goes on. Yeah. And you know the constitutional cure for this is impeachment. Uh but the Republican party is behaving like a cult rather than like a serious uh u policy formulating body. Uh and it basically is impossible to hold the president accountable. So no one even tries. I suspect if the midterms do go the way that it looks they might um and the Democrats recover uh somewhat from their own mistakes which have reduced them to the level that they're at um uh that they will mount a series of hearings. I think we're already hearing about this from Congressman Rabkin and others amount amount amount a serious uh series of hearings um investigating the various impeachable offenses that the president has committed with impunity. I don't want to ruin your breakfast, but the um the donor class in America has dispatched uh their folks in the US to uh attempt to uh dissuade the departing MAGARO supporters and get them to change their mind and come back uh to the MAGA camp. I think it's a miserable failure. I think one of their principal spokespersons is repellent and is repelling the MAGA supporters. And here's an example of of that. Hang on to your chair. Cut number six. When we were hit on 9/11, we took a bigger hit than we took at Pearl Harbor. Are you aware of that? There's a lot of young people who aren't. They're being brainwashed to the opposite. If Stalin had had his way, America wouldn't have even existed. But we're told, "No, no. Eisenhower was wrong. We're told Churchill is the bad guy. Hitler's misunderstood. And these guys, they are desperate for normal, regular Americans to debate them. To debate what? They belong in a mental institution. The point is I despise them because they're trying to use the cover of conservatism in the American flag to justify to justify the unjustifiable. We've seen their type before, Mr. and Mrs. America. We've seen it in Europe. We've seen it in Germany. We've seen it in the United States in the 1930s, although it wasn't this bad. They try to steal MAGA. They try to steal America first. But these people are reprobates. This is our generation's war. It's a non-fighting war. But it's more daunting. It's more complicated because it's from within. Abraham Lincoln talked about the enemy within. President Trump has talked about the enemy within. Well, they're here. We have a responsibility as tens of millions of patriotic America loving people to do what? to talk, to speak out, to reject people like this. He's just further obnoxious and repellent. He u it's interesting he did not mention McCarthyism but he's indulging in something rather similar which is you know typical when you don't have a serious intellectual argument uh to make you uh you demonize your opponents you go ad homonym and that's what he's basically what he's doing and this kind of polarizing talk uh is exactly the opposite of what this country needs Yes, we need an open discussion, but an open discussion is not advanced by hurling invective at people. It is has to be civil. It has to be serious. That was not a serious set of remarks. That was invective. Has there been an open discussion on the floor of either the House or the Senate about whether we should invade Venezuela, about whether the president should be bombing these speedboats, about whether we should be giving Israel everything it wants? Of course not. These are all unilateral decisions uh made by the president irrespective of what the laws uh in the constitution say. The object, the subject of his invective, of course, was Tucker Carlson. Of course, Tucker and I communicated over the weekend. Get ready, Mark, because Tucker's warming up. You'll be hearing from him very, very soon. We'll of course be uh we'll be watching it. My apologies to those who were repelled uh by Leven, but we have to show uh what the other side uh is attempting to do, particularly when it's so counterproductive for them. COUNTERPRODUCTIVE FOR THEM. HOW CAN THIS guy be considered by any stretch an attractive um uh exponent uh of the president's views? He just repels people. Ambassador, thank you. Thanks for your time, my dear friend. Uh, same time next week. We'll look forward to seeing you then. Hope so. Okay. All the best. Byebye. Bye.
