---
ingest_date: 2026-05-28
pub_date: 2026-05-28
thread: ritter
source_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ouQIIqiLqOM
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
title: "WARRIOR UPDATE W/SCOTT RITTER EPISODE 119 - US NEGOTIATIONS DETACHED FROM REALITY - KIEV TARGETED"
show: Garland Nixon
host: Garland Nixon
guest: Scott Ritter
channel_slug: garland-nixon
channel_url: https://www.youtube.com/@GarlandNixon
series: Warrior Update
episode_title: US NEGOTIATIONS DETACHED FROM REALITY - KIEV TARGETED
air_day: Thursday, May 28, 2026
source_note: "Transcript pasted manually by operator for canonical May 28 2026 Garland Nixon raw-input capture."
evidence_grade: transcript-bearing
---
# WARRIOR UPDATE W/SCOTT RITTER EPISODE 119 - US NEGOTIATIONS DETACHED FROM REALITY - KIEV TARGETED

Thursday, May 28, 2026

Channel: Garland Nixon
Host: Garland Nixon
Guest: Scott Ritter
Source: YouTube
Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ouQIIqiLqOM

## Transcript

Hooray! Hooray! It's Thursday and we got Scott Ritter and we got important things to talk about. Let's talk. Hello, Garland Nixon here and we got Scott Ritter. Scott Ritter's got a lot of big things going on. He's getting ready to do some traveling and be involved in some important stuff and it's kind of an interesting milestone because, you know, part of his journey started on an, shall we call it an attempt to go to the St. Petersburg Economic Forum. It a a failed attempt that he should have been able to go on, but he wasn't. But here we are. You know, that just goes to show, hey, man, when things kind of aren't looking good, you just keep hanging on. You just keep pushing and sooner or later the uh things will turn in your direction. All right, Scott, let's get going. You know, the it's interesting because the Iranians in their wisdom has said that the US negotiations are detached from reality. a conversation we've been having. OG about Ukraine. Yeah, you guys uh can you give us a uh a ceasefire? The Russians? No. Oh, in that case, let's go talk to the Europeans. What do you think? How about a ceasefire? No. Oh, okay. We'll be back. You know, and what we've seen is this concept of complete detachment from reality and the Iran Iranians are calling it out. What are your thoughts on that, uh Scott? Well, I mean, the first uh rule of negotiations is you need to negotiate from a position of strength. Um, and if you can't win a war, if you're going to turn this into a shooting match, and you can't win a shooting match, you sort of foregone the position of strength. Um, you know, with uh with Russia, this is a proxy war, straight up proxy war between the United States, NATO, Europe um against Russia. Um, we're not winning. Russia's winning. Uh therefore, Russia gets to dictate the terms of conflict resolution. And that's what's happening now. Um with Iran, we started that war just like we started the war in Ukraine. We're the ones that made the decision to turn this into a military conflict and then we've lost that war. Um so we don't get to come in and act as if we won and and dictate terms of conflict resolution. um you know the the Iranians have their position and it's a it's a position that's you know based upon a foundation of national sovereignty um which you're not going to you know just give away u so I this is this is just crazy talk here you know we have people who believe that you know that this is the United States of the 1970s and 80s where we get to dictate outcomes um those days are gone And if we wanted to dictate outcomes, we should not have, you know, made this existential in nature, you know, we we achieve far more, you know, positive results at the negotiating table when we're willing to, you know, negotiate in the realm of, you know, probability. the United States. It's far more probable that the United States could put economic pressure on Iran and get Iran to make concessions premised on the notion those concessions would bring about, you know, some sort of economic relief. Um, you know, that's how the JCPOA worked. That's how all negotiations worked because that's a point of leverage. But when we went ahead and jumped past uh economic and we got straight into military, which is existential in nature, the Iranians now draw a harder line and you know what are we going to do? Threaten to bomb them again? Um didn't work well the first time. So it's it's it's done. So no, we're we live in a fantasy world. It's the same thing, you know, with Ukraine. Had we kept this simply a political economic battle about um the European Union EU membership, um I I think you know this would we we'd be in a completely different situation than we are right now because we know that Russia wasn't looking for a fight that Russia would seek diplomatic outcomes. Um and we could have shaped Europe to be a far different place than it is right now. um never having pushed Russia's back against the wall and compelled Russia to make decisions that have shaped the outcomes that exist today. But now we're in a situation where the Russians have, you know, finally said there is no more negotiations. I mean, I love you K. She truly is one of the dumbest people that ever populated the planet Earth. Um, and the notion that she's now, you know, she wants to be the face of Europe's negotiating team and she's setting conditions on Russia such as, you know, leave Ukraine, leave Georgia, leave Muldava. You sort of have to beat them to do that, Kelly. You know, and Russia will limit the size of its army. That's sort of a term you you put out on the side that lost. Um, Russia's not losing. Russia will determine the size of the Ukrainian army and uh Russian you know economic reality energy dominance etc will determine the you know shape the fact that Europe can't build the military they want to build um you know this is this is this is the reality so both Europe and the United States live in this la land of you know artificial narratives that um unfortunately they don't have quality leadership quality leadership understands reality and deals with reality um conduct themselves accordingly. >> Yeah, I I certainly agree with you. The other part of it is this. You know, it's one thing if it's just you, right? If I make bad decisions and I screw up, if I'm, you know, okay, there's 330 million people here that, you know, are going to have to pay a price. So now we've got even if the Trump team are trying to get a deal, whatever, which you, like I said, they're unrealistic. But every time it gets close, Lindsey Graham and Benjamin Netanyahu and a bunch of lunatics jump UP SCREAMING, "NO, WE'VE GOT TO TELL THEM WE'VE GOT TO DEMAND EVERYTHING." But there's people here that got to feed their families, people that are trying to survive, people that got kids in college. You know what I mean? And there's it seems that to me that the US government is completely detached from its responsibility to the American people. They've never heard of the general welfare clause where the government has some responsibility for the welfare of the American people. Instead, it's just this is what we want. So, hey, the American people are just going to have to bite the bullet and suffer. Well, I mean, this is the problem when you have a national security policy that's shaped not by constitutional realities, but by, you know, the the new reality that we are governed by a cult of personality. I mean, we are literally living in a very dangerous time where, you know, this the man who occupies the White House doesn't view himself as the president. He views himself as something larger than that. Uh, I mean, the man erected a golden statue to himself at Mara Largo, had religious officials come in and start praying to God as if he's somehow the conduit to God. Um, if he is a religious man, I would just advise him to go read the Bible. Focus on the Old Testament and find out what happened to the Hebrews every time they uh they they erected golden statues to other gods. Um, they were smote, smitten, smitted. How about we go with smited? Yeah. Lot's wife turned around turned into a pillar of salt. Um, you know, which is apt because of the Sodom and Gomorrah type U affiliation linkage to the kind of crap that is apparently going on in Washington DC today. Um, but the the the point is we don't function the way we're supposed to function. um we carry out foreign policy um that is designed to get Donald Trump a Nobel Peace Prize instead of further the national security interests of the United States. Um we we carry out, you know, national security policy that's supposed to make Donald Trump worthy of having his face put on Mount Rushmore or having a train station named after him. These are the goals and objectives. These are the center of gravity. None of this is done for the benefit of the American people because if it was, we wouldn't be doing any of this because none of this benefits the American people. >> You know, I think a lot of people people get mad at you. Oh, he's a ex-soldier, so he's, you know, an imperial warrior. And then I have people get mad at me. You're a former cop. You were out there abusing people and doing terrible things, which I wasn't, but that's their image of me, right? And and of course you I think >> a former Marine, not a soldier. >> I mean, yes, Marine. Exactly. >> Marine. I just want to point it in. I will hunt you down and kill you. There's a difference. A soldier is all hypothetical and theoretical. With a Marine, no. Every bad thing you want to say about me is true. Every bad thing say about me is true. Um, you know, I just have taken a different path, but if you want me to come back on that path, I'll be more than happy to further it. Close with and destroy the enemy firepower and maneuver. You want to define yourself as the enemy, that's the outcome you'll get. I think what people don't realize about a soldier or I don't know not all cops but the way of view a marine excuse me a marine is this >> that in order for some guy to say well I'll go out and put my life on the line or I'll respond to I don't know armed robbery in progress where two guys are there one guy's got a shotgun and the other that to to go towards that instead of run as far as you can there's got to be something deep down you know and you got to remember I took an oath to as Maryland to the Constitution of the State of Maryland and to the Constitution of the United States, right? And that it's not just I'm going to go out and do wild stuff that somewhere down there in order to put your life on the line and realize you could be killed. There's a there's a a shooter in the school, you're going to go in there and try to get him and he's out, you're outgunned or whatever, there has to be something down below that says, "I got something that I feel strongly about." And I think that's why people like us get so pissed about the violations of the Constitution and ignoring the Constitution because when you agree to put your life on the line and to do things that a lot of people wouldn't do in a society, you got to have something that drives you. And that something is, you know, deep down inside, I think we should have some rules. And it pisses you off when the politicians order the rules just ignore the Constitution like they are today. I think that's something that people don't get who get pissed at us because of our backgrounds. >> No, I agree 100%. Look, I mean, I'm going to be be honest. I took an oath to the Constitution. I read the con. I was familiar with it. But I trusted the system. I trusted the system. I mean, I I had my job. I had the due diligence I had to put on on my aspect of the job. I know what the law of war was. I knew that I'm not allowed to violate the law of war. Um but I also trusted the system to operate. Uh so the higher up you go in the system I operated in the belief that everybody who took the oath adhered to the oath. So as you moved up in responsibility, you know, to give you an example, when I was a um intelligence officer in in a marine battalion, you know, the scope and scale of my constitutional work was nil. Um >> Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My job was to go out and find targets so we could put steel on targets. Um when I got, you know, moved to a different position, when I became uh with the on-site inspection agency, one of my jobs was counter intelligence. And um as a result, we had, you know, civilian contractors that, you know, we would have to polygraph and maintain security files on because they're traveling to a denied area, um, formerly hostile area, the Soviet Union, where we know they had intelligence services seeking to recruit people. So, we had to do counter intelligence works, which means I had to maintain files on these people, but they're American citizens. And this is where I I had to get schooled. I had somebody come in and go, "Do you want to go to jail?" I said, "No, I don't want to go to jail." Well, why do you have these files here? Well, I mean, they're going to vodka. Dude, they're American citizens. >> You're not allowed to maintain, you know, active files on American citizens. There there there are things that have to be done, procedures have to put in place, and then you have to have review. So, if you determine you need to monitor somebody uh and you have that, there must be a review process every so often to that that that says we need to continue this or we get rid of this information. That's called the Constitution. It was a pain in the ass because I I had to literally spend a lot of time doing but it was required. These were American citizens. They have rights and I have a duty and responsibility to the constitution not to violate their rights no matter how justified I believe I'm at. And as you go up the chain, you know, your your constitutional responsibilities expand. The constitution is everything, ladies and gentlemen. It's the only thing. It is the bedrock upon which everything we do is founded. At the low levels, you may not see it because you're down there in the weeds, but you have to trust that the people above you are doing their job. And what's happening today is we know for a statement of fact that the people above are not doing their job. They are not adhering to the adhering to the the Constitution isn't a a a requirement. It's a it's it's an impediment. It's an obstacle to be overcome, to ignore, pushed aside because they're doing upstairs what I couldn't do or wouldn't do or shouldn't done down at that low level. They're saying, you know, what they're saying is, well, this is inconvenient. Therefore, I'm not going to do it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Constitution doesn't allow for an inconvenient clause. You know, it's mandatory. You know, and this is why I get angry at, you know, 702, you know, the the the Patriot Act, the 702, where people say, well, especially intelligence people. I hate when especially when non-intelligent go, well, in the name of security, we have to make sure it's easy. No, guys, you know, they're intelligence professionals. The whole concept of a prof, it's like somebody coming to clean your house or detail your car. You hire a professional and they come in and take a look at my car and go, "Holy cra, you got dogs." Yep. There's dog hair everywhere. Yep. That's going to be hard. Yep. You're a professional, >> right? >> Deal with it. You know, you can't sit there and go, "No, no, I only detail cars that don't have dogs. I only do this." You know, no. Life is tough. You're the professional. Deal with it. If you're a professional, that means the Constitution is your reality. You don't get to make it go away because it's inconvenient. And I don't want to hear about how hard it is to collect intelligence data. I know. Been there, done that, got the t-shirt. That was old school back when we actually actually work, not sit behind a freaking computer and let AI do the work for us. We had to do the hard work. Get out there, the sweat, the blood, you know, and it was hard to make sure that we adhere to the Constitution, you know, and sometimes you didn't get the information you wanted the easy way because that's all this is. 702 is just about the easy way. There's ways to get information. It's hard. It's hard work, but you're a professional. Your job is to do the hard work. Today we have people that just decide that the Constitution and they and they cite stupidity like if we don't do this a terrorist are going to win. There's no evidence at all that 702 or anything from that ever stopped a terrorist attack. None whatsoever. We do have lots of evidence that has empowered the government to violate the rights of American citizens, innocent American citizens. And this is what this is this is why the Constitution is so important. People need to understand this. The constitution is that which defines who we are collectively as a people. And the moment you say, "Well, that's inconvenient." Or, "No, we have to put security above." Who was it that I think Benjamin Franklin said or some somebody said, Thomas Jefferson, uh, if if you um put security above liberty, you won't get either. I mean, that's just the bottom line. >> Yep. You know, I used to be with the ACLU as until I realized and felt as though they no longer protected the Constitution. But the two of my proudest moments were one when a the KKK asked for a um a permit to have a rally and Annapolis, Maryland said they can't. And the ACLU said, "Well, we don't like their views. We find it abhorrent, but the Constitution says you got to give them one. You can other people can have a counter rally. You can do whatever you want to, but the Constitution is clear. If you deny them, you can deny somebody else because they don't like their views. Right? That was a proud moment for me. Another one was Rush Limbbo. I was no fan of Rush Limbbo. I thought he was a blowhard. Right? But when they went after Rush Limbaugh, we filed an amicus brief, a friend of the court brief, and what we said was this. The the government went and got his the state of Florida went and they took his um got his uh doctor's information, his medical stuff, and we said, "You can't do that. That should be protected. The the government should not be able to just go in and grab your medical records. That should be one of the most protected thing. Now, nobody in the room like I I thought he was a blowhard. I always I didn't like had nothing to do with that. It was this is a position of law and we're standing for the position of law for everybody. Not they don't change because you like or don't like a person because sooner or later somebody won't like you. And when they don't like you and they change the standard, those were two of my proudest moments. When those moments, it wasn't all the things that I wanted to happen that we stood up for. Forget that. Yeah, you're supposed to do that. That's the easy stuff. So, it's actually what you said when they're like, "Well, we need to violate the Constitution so we can do that." No, actually, that's when you need the Constitution. When you're say, "We want to do this, but darn it, the Constitution says we want." Okay. Which priority are you there? No, I want to do this. So, but as soon as you do it one time, as soon as you ignore the Constitution one time, as soon as you ignore the rules one time, it gets easier and easier and you and and then you're where we are today where you can literally start a war and then uh and and Congress does nothing and then you say, "Well, I don't have to report back to Congress." Why? Because the war is in pause, so that starts the 60 days over. No, that nothing doesn't say that anywhere. Then that's where we are, Scott. And I'm furious about it to be quite frank. >> Well, I I am too. I mean, um, you know, it just a little war. You know, I I I sat on a grand jury once. Now, you're not allowed to talk about grand jury testimony. So, I won't get into the specifics of grand jury testimony except to say that the cops are brought forward by the prosecutors. And the cops are always brought forward as they're just these are good cops. Cops are good guys. Cops are the best. Cops. >> They lied. Never. >> And every cop that came up and testified lied. And one of the things that the cops were talking about is um you know communications intercept and um and and then intelligence collection related to that. Um and one of the issues came down to voice recognition because one of the issues at stake was a cop walked by somebody, asked a question, the person answered, and the cop arrested that person because of the probable cause that the voice matched that of the voice he heard on the intercept. And uh and I was there watching all the jurors go, "Oo, you're really good." Of course, I get to ask questions. And I said, "Um, you know, what's what what school did you go to for um for, you know, your your your work, the the skill set? What's your qualifications to be a voice intercept operator?" He said, "Well, I'm a police trained. I went to this." I said, "Okay, so are you in there? Did you are you trained in specific, you know, voice modulation techniques to do voice print matching?" Um, well, we we're from But are you trained in that? No, I I'm I'm just a technical. So, what makes your ear capable of doing that which a computer can't do? Um, how can you through your ear? Well, I have years of experience. No, no, that's not the point because you don't know what you're and and I'm going on and on. The bottom line, what I was trying to tell him is that there's no legal way he can say that uh listening to a phone conversation allowed him to match the voice of somebody there based upon his own innate uh knowledge. It was a straight up bald-faced lie. He just had it out for this person because this person happened to be of a certain skin color and lived in an apartment block that he needed to get access to. And so he and you know as I'm raising questions and finally the prosecutor comes in and goes, "Well, you can't ask these questions." I said, "What do you mean you're a grand jury? I can ask any question I want to. I'm a grand juror. You know, I'm the boss." Um, and I undermined the entire proc that entire aspect of the case that that cop was shown to be a liar and all that stuff. And you know, Ron as they brought in, they held the grand jury hostage, which they do on over a long weekend. If you don't come up with, you know, you got to vote on everything. I'm sitting there trying to, you know, bring up the case. Every's like, I got to get home. It's it's not a this isn't a trial of guilt or innocence. Let's just do I said, "Guys, every single person you're voting for right now has a a sealed indictment." And when you vote on this, they're going to go and sweep them off the street. And when they sweep them off the street, they're going to jail. And they're not going to be allowed to make bail. This is before the bail laws were. And you're ruining their lives because a cop lied to you and told you that something happened that didn't happen. Um, we have a duty and responsibility. Nobody cared. Nobody cared. They all wanted to go home. But the beauty of it was we were supposed to be impanelled for an entire month because this was just the first of a whole series of investigations based upon the same thing. and the prosecution called it quits and said, "Nope, we're terminating this grand jury. We're getting rid of the hell out of here." That's the power of one person who understands the Constitution, believes in the Constitution. The Constitution is everything. It's the only thing. And um you know, we we we have to abide by today. We don't This is how we get in wars, endless wars. This is how we you know, get to where we are in society today. We our cops today can get away with literal murder. Literal murder. Because the Supreme Court has always sided on the side of police. We give them the benefit of the doubt. Why do cops get the benefit of the doubt? Cops should never get the benefit of the doubt. Cops should be held to the highest standard possible. Cops should require to prove everything over and over. That's hard work. They're professionals. >> When you have a cop, you're a professional law enforcement officer. It's supposed to be hard, especially if you're doing it right. Unfortunately, they become a privileged class uh and and they become an empowered class and they they take they take advantage of uh the uninformed citizenry. And that's what the government does right now. We're going to war today. These wars could be stopped in a heartbeat if Congress would do their job. Uh if Congress would do their job instead of, you know, scoring political points, ask real questions at these hearings. I mean, Peak Hegseth is the easiest setup in the world. The easiest setup. I can get him spun up so you'd be screwing him out of the ceiling every question and he'd be babbling and making no sense. He'd be perjuring himself on the stand and we'd have him removed from office. I could do that with just about everybody. Scott Besset, the whole crew. But Congress isn't doing their job. There was a time when they would do their job. Go back and look at the hearings. Go look at the McCarthy hearings when Congress finally woke up and started, you know, asking questions. Go look at, you know, the church hearings, uh, you know, about the CIA when Congress did their job. Congress is extraordinarily powerful. Go read the book by, um, gosh, I can't remember his name. He wrote a a lengthy biography of LBJ. Um, brilliant books, but you know, go read when LBJ was a congressman, then it became uh the in the Senate and the power that Congress had, the good old days, when Congress mattered, when a president had to get congressional consent or nothing happened and the president had to make compromises and Congress worked together, the parties worked together to achieve a goal because they took their jobs seriously. Today, Congress exists solely for the enrichment of people who go to Congress. That's it. It is one giant grift and they even admit it. I mean, I hate when I see these guys going, "You're not going to get any quality people to become a member of Congress if you don't let us enrich ourselves through, you know, stock trading." What um if that's your definition of of quality people? No. What you're saying is we can't get the empowered elite uh economic elite to become members of Congress unless they can continue their ongoing grift against the American public. But we can get lots of quality people that don't, you know, don't believe in making money on that scale. I mean, hell, we all have to pay bills, you know, but you know, you don't get paid that bad as a congressman. You don't get paid that bad. Yeah, you're not going to have a $6 million home, a yacht, and all this stuff, but you don't get paid that bad. A lot of people do a lot more work for a lot less money than American congressmen. Straight up. And it should be an honor and privilege to serve your country. You know, Congress treats as there's there's something special. You know, a PFC in the Marine Corps is special. He ain't making that kind of money, but he could die. You know, cop on the street is special. He ain't making that much money, but he could die. You're a member of Congress. You're a perfumed pansy princess just sitting there sitting in an office talking. You're getting paid to talk. And you you you know, and you want to make how much money? I mean, my goodness, no. This this we have a sick warped society where money is taking over everything. Anyways, that's Sorry. >> No, I'm with you, man. I'm with you 100%. Some of these things just need to be said, you know. Uh, but now let me ask you this. So, here we are a couple days into the Russians have said, "Look, we're talking Kiev." And of course, the Europeans are like, "We're not going to leave." And I'm like, Kajakala said, "Our people aren't going to leave." And I thought, "Good. Uh, maybe you should join them and bring some more." You know what I mean? Um, as Medvadev said, he says, "Well, obviously you all have diplomats to spare, right?" Um, you know, they I think the Russians probably may even be negotiating with people saying, "You got to get out." And they, you know, well, we can you give us three more days. We got to get our computers out. You know what I mean? They're not unreasonable people. If if if certain countries contact the Russians and say, "We're closing our our our our diplomatic stuff and getting it out, but you got to give guys they got to get their families. They got to things got to get out. So, can you give us a couple more days?" But I don't know if it's going to be this weekend. The hammer's coming down and I think the hammer ain't just coming down on Kiev. I think they're going to move to put this thing to an to to rest, shall we say? That they've had enough. Your thoughts, Scott? >> No, there. Look, we we are seeing a complete transition. We had this talk before about my my feeling about um victory day and I told you I said there's a new vibe in Russia, >> right? >> It's a totally new vibe. one that says unconditional surrender is the only acceptable outcome. Um it was a dark vibe um that it didn't exist before with that basically gave short shrift to negotiation and uh started not just you know focusing on Ukraine as the enemy but Germany was specifically mentioned as the enemy. Uh Russia of course has an interesting case but is there's Germany legally is a is an enemy state so is Japan. Enemy state is a is a status enshrined in the United Nations charter which means um that any of the victorious powers in looking at if the enemy state ever seeks to resurrect itself, militarize itself, move in a direction, you don't need a chapter 7 resolution, you don't need anything. The victorious powers can just reach over and hammer them at any time. And it's curious because China has called out Japan as an enemy state, saying, "You guys stay away from Taiwan because the last time you went into Taiwan, you were imperial Japan and we had to kick your ass." Um, and the Russians now are calling out Germany as an enemy state. With all the rhetoric coming out of Germany, they're reminding them, you don't have a right to have a a big army. You don't have a right. Um, and if we determine what you're doing, it violates um, you know, the restraint you're supposed to show because of your status as a enemy state, we'll just we'll just take you off the map. And now you have more and more Russians saying this. And everybody's going, "Well, that's not it's not valid anymore." Well, it's not what do you mean it's not valid? It's legally valid. Security Council hasn't changed it. Nobody's changed the charter. The charter is the same. Well, they passed a resolution that said that that was outdated. That resolution has no bearing in law. That's like the United States Congress passing a uh, you know, what do they call it? the the the something of the house, the uh the you know it's it's how the th the house believes. Okay, but is it law? No. So, who cares? We don't care how you believe. We just care about what the law is. The law is that there's still enemy states. Um Russia has changed and the murder of 21 uh college girls and and a couple boys in their sleep at the Star Bell uh college is the straw that broke the camel's back. Now, we've seen a Russian strike. That Russian strike was the one that dealt with the people who attacked Starbell. It shows you how quality the intelligence is. Um, you know, this everybody's going, "Well, that wasn't enough. That was enough to uh destroy the factories to produce the FP1 drones that were used to attack SAR Bells, to take out the commit command and control center that was directing the strike um and and things of that nature. But now what Russia is doing is they're taking it to the next level. They're going to take out national uh decision-m centers, command and control and defense industry and things related to defense industry. But the Russians have um that has been interpreted, it was initially interpreted by me that they're going to erase Kiev. I've been using that term, the eraser of Kiev. I was wrong. Um they're not going to erase Kiev. We already have an indication and it it makes sense if you think about it. Uh for instance, the Rada uh the Ukrainian parliament. I'd love to see it erased off the face of the earth because some of those parliamentarians are straight up Nazis including Gonenko who watched people jump out of the burning building in Odessa in uh May of 2014 went to their bodies, kicked them to make sure they're dead, then running around shouting Nazi slogans. The man is a straightup Nazi today a member of parliament. So I think the parliament deserves to be wiped out. But as you know a member of the Russian parliament and others have they don't make the decisions. They're just there to rubber stamp things. They're not a true decision-making body. And moreover, it will be empty. So now we take an archnik. An arachnic costs about $50 million right now. That's a pretty expensive missile. Um you're going to take a $50 million weapon and use it on an empty building. Makes no sense. The same thing with the presidential administration. There's nobody in it. They've been evacuated. you're going to take a $50 million weapon and use it on the president's No, they're not. The Archnik is designed to penetrate bunkers. You take a look at the the the the place they hit, the White Church uh facility outside of Kiev. Uh they hit a Soviet era um aircraft maintenance facility with an underground element that had been expanded by the Ukrainians to produce drones, FP1 drones. I actually think that might have been a final assembly area before it was launched from that airfield towards the SC. the Arnia came in and penetrated and destroyed the totality of those underground facilities. Ukrainians don't want to tell you about that because they didn't want to tell you it existed to be. Russia is going to use Archnik against underground facilities, underground facilities that have people in it, which means that Russia isn't going to strike on a timeline that has been broadcast to everybody. Uh Russia is going to strike when Russia has the intelligence that says there's people there now, kill them. and Russia will do that. So this I don't think we're going to be looking at you know this this eraser of civilization. I think what we're going to be looking at is um starting at a period of time where Russia you know deems necessary. They are obligated under uh international humanitarian law to provide adequate notification advanced notification of intent to strike where the strike could have impact on civilian populations. They've provided this notification. Uh there is no law about what is adequate. You're right. The Russians might be receiving phone calls asking for another day or two, but it's not going to last indefinitely. At some point in time, the window will close. They're not going to announce when the window closed. They've given adequate notification. It's up to you to get out and then they're going to come in and you're they're going to start hitting targets. I believe that this campaign is going to be more of shake the tree. Um it's term used in the intelligence world where you go in and you do something and really what you're doing is you're shaking the tree, then stand it back and see what falls from the tree. Um, we did it in Iraq where I'd come in and and trigger an inspection, but I'd have U2 aircraft, helicopter, sigant, all my collection plan out there. We come in and hit a target and then see how the Iraqis responded, see where they went, see where they went to. And then we'd follow up with inspections. We'd have rapid response teams following up. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Shake the tree inspections. I think the Russians are going to do the same thing here where they're going to go in, they're going to hit targets, and then they're going to be monitoring based upon whatever collection plan they have in how the Ukrainians respond. Sometimes you hit a target and you don't get a response which tells you maybe your underlying intelligence was flawed on that, that it's not doing what you think it's going to do. Sometimes you hit a target, everything lights up. Uh, but you have to be discreet about that because it could be lighting up for the wrong reason. It couldn't ne it doesn't necessarily mean that it's it's related to what you're looking for. A lot of intelligence work is going to be at at play here. And Russia's going to get right there. It's patient. Why? Because there's no timeline. There's no timeline. Russia's not doing this to impress anybody for a calendar. They're doing this because there's no longer going to be negotiations. There are no more I don't know what Kelly Collis thinks she's talking about. The Russians aren't going to sit down with her. She not the Russia's already said we're not negoti this ends with the unconditional surrender of Ukraine that's it now after that Europe you want to have a talk we can have a talk but meanwhile stop playing games in the Baltics because if you allow the Ukraine to use the Baltics to attack the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum where yours truly is supposed to be speaking. Um, Russia's not going to take on not because they're worried about me, but the day after I speak, Vladimir Putin speaks. And you think Vladimir Putin is going to go to St. Petersburg and address on on the biggest platform there is while drones are flying over, that ain't going to happen. I mean, and if the Baltics empower this, they will disappear, too. Um, so this is the direction we're heading right now where Russia is going to be doing a intelligence-based campaign uh designed to eliminate decision-making centers, the defense industrial centers. It may there might be days where it's very dramatic. There might be days where nothing happens. Um, I I just think that, you know, anybody who expects it all to happen this weekend, I think you're going to be disappointed. Um, something may happen this weekend, but if it does, remember it's just part of a campaign designed to eradicate Ukraine as a viable uh resistance state of of car as a state capable of long-term viable resistance um to destroy Ukraine in its current configuration. Now, some people are also saying that they should kill Zelensky. I don't think Zelensky is going to be marked for death. There's a couple reasons. one, uh, Vladimir Putin understands better than just about anybody that if you get into the start killing national leaders, um, the blowback is a Um, meaning that, you know, if you go off and kill leaders, you've created a window that says you're now a viable target. So, what you want to do is make sure that leaders aren't viable targets. The other thing is, Zelensky is failing across the board. I mean, Europe hates them, America hates them, the Ukrainians hate them. Um, Russia is playing the game where at some point in time, u, you know, the Ukrainian government's going to collapse. It's going to be replaced by something that the Russians are working on. Um, we met some of the people that are deciding the future of that. Um, now here's the thing. Zullinski is going to be the most easily replaceable leader in the world in Ukraine because he is totally discredited across the board. Um, if you kill Zelensky, you turn him into a martyr right off the bat. He'll become a national hero. And then the people that follow in are going to be enraged by the martyrdom. And they're going to be dealing with the people who might be motivated by the martyrdom to rally around Ukraine. And now you have a leadership that's no longer discredited. And you have to begin the process of discreditation all over again. Keep Zelensky alive. Keep him moving around. keep him doing the corrupt stuff because at some point in time when the rest of Ukraine collapses, he'll be identified as the leader that must be replaced and the Russian alternative will slide in and it'll be more widely accepted. So, anybody thinking that the, you know, when they talk about decision-making centers that it means that they're going to be targeting Zillinsky, I think it's the exact opposite. I think Russia is going to be bending over backwards not to target Zillinski because Zelensky is one of the best assets they have on the table right now. >> Yeah, that would be like killing Kaja Kala. Why would you want to, you know, these are the gifts they keep on giving Zinsky better watch MI6 if anything he may get a little once he's no longer useful to them. A last thing uh and I want to ask you about this something in task deployment of typhon systems typhoon I guess to Japan threatens Moscow's interest and you look at that and they're like Moscow sees joint US Japan drills that will involve the deployment of the Typhon missile system as a threat to its interest in regional security um ne serious negative act on stability and security in the Asia-Pacific region. We also keep warning Japan against making such decisions as we will inevitably regard them as deliberate and hostile moves disregarding Russia's national interest. I think um I think part of it is this, you know, I think that President Xi and in looking at Germany saying they're going to rearm, Japan saying they're going to rearm, I think there's a unity and I think Presidents Xi and um Putin are discussing the interconnectedness of their security. Um your thoughts? Well, yeah. First of all, when we So, just so people understand the the the Typhoon Typhoon is a SM6 missile um standard missile six, it's designed to be an ICBM killer, you know, high range uh surfacetoair interceptor ballistic missiles, but the sophistication of its guidance system, it can also be adapted for surfacetosurface missile configuration. So, it's a dualuse capable missile. It can shoot down things in the air and it can strike targets. But it's fired from the Mark 41 um launch complex which is Mark 41 is uh you know on Aegis ships. Um it can fire SM3s, it can fire SM6s, it can fire tomahawk missiles. Um it can do it all. And so this is why the Russians always objected to um Aegis ashore because we kept saying, "No, it's just going to have the SM3 missile. Don't worry about it." And the Russians are going, "Well, actually, we think you're probably going to deploy an anti-ICBM missile and also the Tabah could be launched from that." No, no, no, no, guys. We've changed the electronics. It's all good. Trust us on this one. Well, as soon as the Russians trusted us on it, we deployed a ICBM killing missile in there, which means now in Europe, they have ICBM killers for deployed. So, when the Russians launch, uh, we can intercept. We lied to them again. Um, but more important is a week after we got out of the intermediate nuclear forces treaty, we took a tomahawk missile and launched it from a groundbased Mark 41 launch cluster. So when they talk about deploying the Typhoon system, they're talking about a system that is not a surfacetoair, but a surfaceto surface and capable of actually having tomahawks on board. It's that's what the Russians are worried about. So, it's the introduction of intermediate range missile systems into the Pacific when Russia doesn't have a counter. Um, the Archnik right now is totally configured against Europe. One of the things that the Russians will probably end up doing now is deploying Archnik into the Pacific region. Um and the other thing is Russia because they worked together with the Chinese are now going to come up with a comprehensive you know um burden sharing so to speak in terms of uh military resources allocated to certain targets and all the Japanese are going to do is that um we're going to target now why is the United States you know we're exercising type well one of the reasons is that the Japanese had bought into this notion back when we did the tripartite agreement and brought the Japanese and South Koreans into the nuclear framework Um, you know, in a potential nuclear war, the Japanese and the South Koreans will now be part of the nuclear war planning and be part of the decision-making related to the release of nuclear weapons. You don't think we're ever going to give the Japanese and South Koreans launch authority over American nuclear weapons, do you? Because if you do, take another hit, guys. But they bought into it. They bought into it. The other thing they bought into was that they will have counter strike capability uh sovereign counterstrike capability. Um and they bought 400 um tomahawk missiles. 400. And they were supposed to be there in Japan. So if North Korea start playing games and launching a missile at Japan, Japan could strike with 400 tomahawks. Except we just told them now you ain't getting them ever. Um we used all our tomahawks against Iran. We don't have any left. And so, um, they're all coming to the United States. So, the Japanese are left with nothing. So, this is why we're doing this exercise. But now, what's going to happen is they're going to get overclassed. Back in the, um, 1980s, um, the Russians, they had a missile called the, um, the, uh, SS20. Uh, the Pioneer was their name for it. Um, the SS20 had a couple vari initially was deployed just in in Europe, but then again, it it got deployed to the Pacific. But as they got on, the SS20 was getting modified with better warheads, better guidance, everything. And the last modification, I think it was the SS20, you know, mod 4, um, was going to go to a place called um, Chakota. Chota's way the hell way the hell out in the in the far reaches of Siberia on the on the coast of the of the Pacific Ocean. Uh it's a little peninsula, tiny tiny little airfield. A lot of fishermen working there. But they were going to build a missile base in Chakot. Why? Because from Chakakota, the SS20 could threaten the United States, threaten American. I think what you're going to see Russia do now is put arrestics in Chakakota. They're just going to revive this plan, put arrestics there, and now what we have is Russia will have a non-nuclear way of destroying the 41 missile silos in Gley Air Force Base uh that house our interceptors. Um and that's a game changer because those interceptors were supposed to exist to stop ICBMs from flying into the United States. Now with the Rnik there in Chota, they will blanket that and that'll be the end of all our missile intercept. Now the Russians can fly it freely. This is how stupid the United States and this is why we need arms control. I'm not saying the Russians aren't right in doing what they're doing. I'm saying that's horribly destabilizing. Horribly destabilizing. Everything that's happening today is destabilizing. Uh and if we're I mean right now we have the French and the British talking about extending a nuclear umbrella into Norway. So now France is providing nuclear guarantees to Norway. We talk about Finland bringing British uh and French aircraft in with nuclear capabilities. uh you know because Europe now is responding to the America's withdrawal by creating their own. The Russians are respond. We have a many nuclear arms race taking place in Europe that Europe will never win. But guys, one mistake and we all die. That's why I wrote the book highway to hell. It's all about exactly what's happening today. If we don't have arms control, we are all going to die in a nuclear holocaust. without arms control. Sergey Keraganov gots to gets to talk about we're going to trade Posnon for Boston and we don't think the United States is going to make that trade. So we're just going to nuke Poland and we expect the United States to do nothing. In which case United says, "Well, then screw it. We nuke Tyrron. Now what are you going to do?" Oh, now that begins. Next thing you know, we all die. We have to have nuclear arms control. We have to have nuclear arms control. But we don't have it today. So all this stupidity is taking place. The INF treaty existed for a reason because intermediate uh range missiles are inherently destabilized and especially when they become very fast like the Persian 2. The Persian 2 could hit Moscow in 12 minutes. Now we're talking about putting Dark Eagle in there can hit it in seven minutes. Guys, this is a game changer because it takes all uh you know the concept of just a pause while we consider the intelligence to make sure it's accurate. In 1995, Boris Yelson was told that the United States had launched Trident 3 missiles in a preemptive strike against Moscow. He was told that if he doesn't make the decision to launch in 5 minutes that uh it's over. Russia will be hit, that decision will be made. It's taken out of their hands. He held on for just a little bit and fortunately at the last second when everybody was screaming, "Push the button, push the button, push the button, there, oh, it was just a Norwegian uh weather rocket, not a not a Trident. pause. But with the INF treaty, you see those missiles don't exist. Those those intermediate range missiles don't exist. You create, you know, this this confidence building. You you deescalate. We desperately need arms control right now. We desperately need arms control because of the stupidity of America's policies. None of these things we're doing promote the national security of the United States. Every single one of them will result in either a Russian or Chinese uh counter. Look what we did with China. China was just happy sitting there with a bunch of old nuclear weapons. We got them. We don't even have warheads on our missiles. They're old liquid fuel ones. You know, if we see something happen, we'll fuel them up. Takes a couple hours. Then we'll put the warhead on and then if we have to, we'll launch. But we don't ever expect to get to that. We've got them. Nobody's going to mess with us. The United States looking at Taiwan said they got conventional overmatch. We may have to use nukes. And if we use nukes, we have to preempt the Chinese nukes. And the Chinese are going, "Wait a minute. You're talking actually about hitting us first." Preemptive. Uh, we can't let you do that. So, they went out and they drilled a 100 holes in the And they're playing, you know, uh, whack-a-ole. They've got, I don't know if they have 100 missiles. They have like 30 some odd missiles that move from silo to the south. Each one of them a DF-41 solar rocket fuel is with multiple warheads capable of destroying, you know, an entire state. They got 41 of them. We just changed the game overnight because we're stupid. Nuclear weapons provide no security. Iran just proved that for all those out there say Iran just got to have a nuclear weapon because if they don't they're going to die. They just beat two nuclear armed powers and a stand up fight using conventional weapons. No, you don't have to have nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons are a hindrance, not an asset. And we need to get rid of them all. >> All right. So everybody, let's go to the most important website that you will visit today and it is scottr.com. Scott, tell us about all the stuff going on at scottritter.com. >> Well, as you see right there, the the you got chapter eight of the Scut Hunters. That's just the my online publishing effort to you write about the the scut hunting that took place in the Desert Storm. And then later on um for the first uh three years of the weapon inspections where we were focused on hunting down Scuds uh this story has never been told anywhere literally. Um especially the stories you're getting in the chapter 8, chapter six, seven and eight. Um we talk about Delta Force and uh how Delta Force operated on the ground. Nobody's ever this has never been written anywhere. I was lucky enough to be able to interview um u about a dozen former Delta operatives and uh officers and people affiliated with that. Uh plus I worked with them during as as a weapon inspector and I f this is this is my war. This is the war that I did uh scut hunting. So it's a um it it you know that's it. It's it's my foray into self-publishing and uh I hope people like it. I published the prologue in the first four chapters for free. Um, I've always said that when you go to my, you know, go to to my Telegram, it's it's free. There's a subscription, but it's a free subscription. U, this book is different from the analysis I do on a daily basis. This book is a reward to the people who subscribe. Um, and so from chapters 5, 6, 7, 8, nine, and into part two, uh, only a paid subscription will get it. Um, because it's it's meant to reward the people that, you know, have a paid subscription. But if you if you want the an I always said I will never hide my analytical work behind a payw wall and I don't um I I I had an article that I published uh last week um you know terror and mental war um uh just I'm pretty proud of this article because I put a lot of effort into it but the biggest vote of confidence came from somebody who's in the presidential administration of the Russian government who reached out and said this is the best article on this topic written anywhere. They said, "I'm really surprised you know Russia better than most Russians." Uh because you truly capture the you know the real sentiment inside. And it it basically that article sets up what's happening today in Ukraine and the fact that Russia is done and they're moving on for a decisive move against the Ukrainians. Um I've also published other garments. I put I published an article on uh energy intelligence about the fight in Mali uh the role of Africa etc. Um you know and other things. I also, this is the website, just so people know, next week I'm going to Russia. I'm going to the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. I will be publishing an article called uh the Revenge Tour because this is the one where the United States government didn't want me to go and we now know it. It was speculation. We now know with 100% certainty that the Ukrainian government begged the United States to pull my passport to prevent me from going to St. Petersburg because they feared the effectiveness of my presence there. And they feared the fact that after St. Petersburg. I was going to spend 44 days traveling through Russia, bringing the Russian realities to the United States, countering all of the anti-Russian propaganda that Ukraine was putting out there. The Ukrainians viewed me as the number one enemy, and they begged the United States to pull my passport, and the United States did. Then the Ukrainians put forward an argument that said I was a Russian asset, and this is why the ra the FBI raided my house based upon information from the Ukrainians. Um I think we have a new administration that doesn't buy into this. So I'm hopeful I'll be allowed to continue this trip. U they have nothing to fear. We're trying to bring about peace. But um I will be publishing everything I do in Russia. I'll be doing little video blogs. I'll be doing uh written articles etc will be published on this website. Um and I have enough money to make this trip. But as I've always told people, since I pay for everything in this, um, you can have a a trip that, um, accomplishes some of what you want to do. You can have a trip that accomplishes most of what you want to do, and you can have a trip that accomplishes all of you want to do. I'm at the most of you want to do standpoint. I uh I'm not quite to the all because um there's it's money involved. You need money. I have to hire drivers, uh, security, I have to hire interpreters, I have to hire a whole bunch of things. And so I'm at the most, um, I have a couple days left. Uh, if anybody wanted to donate to help push me over into the get it all done, I can't talk too much about it. Garland knows I'm a serious man. And when I say that I'm going to do something special and and I was telling Garland the whole time, uh, I'm going to do something special. And he's like, what? I said, I can't tell you. You got to tell. He's like, then I said, we're going to go to Chetchy and do what? I can't tell you. Gotta trust me. Was I lying, Garland? >> No, it was unbelievable. Yeah, >> that's the fact that I'm So, what I'm trying to tell you guys is I'm gonna be doing something special. Something really, really, really special, unique, something that nobody has ever done. Um, and right now I'm most of the way there, but it costs a lot of money. So, anything people could do through donations to help me push it up there so that you get the maximum benefit because again, the stuff I'm doing isn't going to be hidden behind a a payw wall. The stuff I'm doing is for you. I'm gathering information about the reality of Russia, bringing it forward so that you can have access to it. So, you're you're really helping yourself here. You're not just helping me because you are and I appreciate it, but um this doesn't pay my salary. These donations don't pay my salary. Not a dime of it goes into my pocket. It all goes to the expenses associated with this trip. And Garland can can say he's been on two trips with me where we've paid the entire way. It ain't cheap, guys. It ain't cheap. So, any help that people can provide would be greatly uh appreciated. >> Everybody go to realcottritter.com. And if you if you're able to donate, just click right here on donations and then click the donate button. You see there's donate buttons and you can be a part of the Scott Ritter verse. you can be part of um doing things to make a difference and and help change Scott Garland Nixon too, ladies and gentlemen. Uh because you're not done you're not done going to Russia, are you? >> No, no, no. In fact, I'm going to um as of June 1st, I'm going to start a fundraising drive for my next trip to Russia. So, >> the Russians the Russians love Garland. I'm just I'm just going to say this. I you know, it wasn't a gamble to bring Garland there. I knew that this was going to happen, but you had never been to Russia when we went the first time, >> right? >> And the Russians were peripheral peripheral knowledgeable. They went, "Oh, yeah, we we we know you." But they didn't know you, and you honestly didn't know them. Um, that you can no longer say that. Garland Nixon has made two high-profile trips to Russia where he has met the Russians, the Russians have met him, and Garland's now part of the uh Russia universe in terms of, you know, gathering information, bringing it back and all that. So Garland Nixon deserves support. He deserves support to pay his bills, to put a roof over his head, to feed his family, and he also deserves support so that Garland Nixon can return to Russia and continue the fantastic work that he started the first two times. So support Garland Nixon, too. >> All right. Thanks a lot, everybody. You see everything down below. And of course, there's a PO box for those who use the old snail mail. Thanks a lot, everybody. There's something you can do that's very important, and that's share this on all your social media platforms. We're out.
