---
ingest_date: 2026-04-18
pub_date: 2026-04-18
kind: verbatim-sidecar
source_form: post
source_path: docs/archive/skill-work-legacy/work-strategy/strategy-notebook/source-deepdive-iran-closes-hormuz-2026-04-18-verbatim-2026-04-18.md
---
# Verbatim — Lt Col Daniel Davis (ret.) *Deep Dive* (WORK)

**Title:** *Iran Closes Strait of Hormuz, Now What?*  
**Speaker:** Lt Col **Daniel L. Davis** (ret.) — Defense Priorities / *Daniel Davis Deep Dive*  
**Notebook:** `thread:davis`  
**Ingest date:** 2026-04-18 — **pin canonical YouTube URL + confirm air date in UI**

**Territory:** Trump clips vs Iranian history/memory; Hormuz open/close dual-register; IRGC/Khamenei signaling; Sean Bell (Sky) cross clip; macro (inventories, fertilizer, jet fuel, Bessent waiver whiplash); Trump nuclear-material claims vs Islamabad deadlock; ceasefire Wednesday clock

---

Trump: We have very good conversations going on. It’s working out very well. They got a little cute, as they have been doing for 47 years. Nobody ever took them on. We took them on. They have no navy. They have no air force. They have no leaders. They have no nothing. Actually, their leaders — it is regime change. You call that enforced regime change. But we’re talking to them. They wanted to close up the Strait again, you know, as they’ve been doing for years. They can’t blackmail us.
Daniel Davis: Yeah, we’ll see. But we’ll have some information by the end of the day. We’re talking to them.
Some weird stuff in there. I mean, we just got to say, and unfortunately that seems to be a common theme nearly every time we talk about anybody that’s talking from the American side. And as you’re going to see in this episode here, there’s a lot of back and forth and confusing, even contradictory statements coming not just by the president, but by the policy makers in our country.
And you know, let’s look at the first because it’s always important to actually take a listen to what he said, as we always claim. Listen to what people say, listen to what the Americans say, listen to what the Israelis say, listen to what the Iranians say, and then look on the ground and see how does that line up with what’s said. That’s critical to do.
One of the things President Trump said there was, you know, they’ve been trying to kill us for 47 years. They have not been trying to kill us for 47 years. They have not been trying to pursue a bomb for 47 years, which is the claim that many people keep making. I mean, this backs up even before all this.
And you got to understand, you got to get a running start to understand how the Iranians think about this because that has everything to do with how their actions are going to be. Now, if you want to know how they’re going to react to a certain thing, you got to understand their mentality, their history, and their culture. And then imagine whatever you want to do, how is that going to react? Because the purpose is supposed to be, let’s do things that are going to be able to result in something that’s beneficial to our side. I mean, that’s what every country is supposed to do. Any of their international relations is supposed to have something that results in something beneficial to them, whatever it is, whatever the topic is.
And when you say, “Well, they’ve been trying to kill us for 47 years,” now I understand that part of this is because we want to paint them as evil and wicked, and so that way our public supports us doing things that on the surface would seem to be quite illegal and immoral even unhelpful. And that’s the case here because look, this backs up to the 1953 coup by the CIA where we unseated the legal, properly elected government of Iran because they weren’t doing what we wanted with oil. So we had a coup to unseat them. We put in the Shah of Iran, our selected guy, because he was very friendly to Western oil, US and British in particular. And then of course the Iranians in 1979 had their revolution. The next year, we started supporting Iraq in what turned out to be an 8-year war against Iran in which three to five hundred thousand Iranians were killed. Probably something close to a million were wounded. It devastated their country for a couple of decades at a minimum. That’s what they remember.
So now then when you see fast forward to the claim that they often bring up here in the White House that well they tried to — that they helped some of the Shia militia in the Iraq war, the US-Iraq war in the 2003 to 2008 time period and they helped with EFPs. It’s a type of roadside bomb that’s really effective and they allegedly killed 600 Americans. Obviously, as a former service member myself who served in Iraq during that time at the end of it in 2009, I’m obviously against any of that. One American died and I think it’s awful. But it was a war and we have to understand that we just helped for eight years kill hundreds of thousands of Iranians. Now, why would they not want to do the same? And it wasn’t even Iran per se. It was the Iraqi Shia militia that we were in a war with and they got help from their parent company or from their allied country in the region just like we’re doing with Ukraine against Russia today. We still keep doing that for four plus years. So it’s a little bit weird and stupid. I’m just going to call it like it is. It’s stupid to point this bony finger at Iran. How dare they have done this? And because they did, they deserve to die. And that’s why we’re doing this because you realize you’re making the logic for Russia to do the same to us because we’ve done it profoundly more against them than they’re doing to us.
You understand what I’m saying? We have to understand how all of this fits together and be honest about it. And there’s not any honesty right there.
Now, President Trump said at the end of that little clip there that there’s going to be something that he’s going to announce tonight. I don’t know what it is. I don’t know if that — I originally thought maybe there was going to be some kind of comment that there’s going to be another round of negotiations, but things are happening today which seem to undermine that. Around the same time that he was talking, in fact, there’s news popping out that Iranian gunboats have fired on tankers in the Strait of Hormuz. And then now they’re saying that it’s closed again. They released some information on their state media. I think they said Iran agreed to allow a limited number of ships to pass through the Strait of Hormuz according to agreements and that’s what we showed you from Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi yesterday. He said yes we’re going to open the Strait according to the ceasefire terms that we agreed to with. And then the media continues on says but the US did not fulfill their obligations. So the Strait of Hormuz is now closed again and passage requires Iranian approval.
So you see that’s that was a whole issue even that Abbas Araghchi said and then I showed you later in the day too where the IRGC spokesman clarified that said there are three conditions and one of the first ones, the absolute first one he listed on there was this is an all or nothing deal. Either the American blockade comes down and our blockade comes down or neither one of them come down. And now then President Trump boasted on Truth Social around that same time yesterday that only the Iranian side would come down and ours didn’t. So I mean that already just sabotaged anything right there. I mean upon what logic would anyone say we want to get the flow of oil open to the Strait of Hormuz. We want things to start happening in a good way and so we’re going to ask the Iranian side unilaterally to stop blocking the Strait of Hormuz while I’m going to keep mine in place so they will be harmed. I mean who would do that? I mean, you can’t ask a major give from another side in a negotiation when they have some control and leverage without giving them something in return.
And the obvious and the easiest thing in the world for President Trump to have done was just say, “Sure, our blockade is now open too.” But for some reason, he didn’t do it. Now, one can speculate, was this an intention to try and make the Iranian side look bad or something? To make it look bad in American eyes because there’s not many Americans — I’ve been looking on major mainstream media today — not many people are saying President Trump asked Iran to open the Strait while he himself kept it closed and then they said well we’re not going to do that. There wasn’t any comment. Only the headline that Iran first of all says they’re going to open the Strait now all of a sudden they’re not going to. Now they shut it down and now apparently they have attacked some ships in the region. We’ll see how that continues to work.
Sean Bell from Sky News this morning was talking about that issue and then he also mentioned something else that additionally the Iran leader Mojtaba Khamenei also said today.
Sean Bell: The Supreme Leader who we haven’t heard very much from now posting on Telegram that Iran’s navy is going to be inflicting bitter defeats on its enemies. What’s militarily? Um how does this feel to you? Does this feel like a significant escalation?
Daniel Davis: Well, the short answer is no. And the danger of saying that when there’s gunfire and everything may mislead people, but by context I mean the Strait of Hormuz was closed by the Iranians, then America’s trying to open it, then Iran’s opened it and America is sort of still closing it because the Iranians have said the blockade that America has in place really isn’t part of the deal. And therefore when it was open, we were seeing a flow of traffic around the Strait. This live tracker which we’ve regularly been following. But of course when as you say the Iranians said it was going to be closed, you’re now the Iranians, you’ve actually seen now quite a lot of this traffic moving around. The green is cargo, the red is oil tankers, and therefore you want to stop that traffic. Now, the way to do it rather than just say something, some of these vessels are really big. They take — they got a lot of momentum, hundred million dollars worth of oil. You can’t just turn them around quickly. Some of the vessels can, but some of them can’t. And therefore, you’ve got to make sure that you believe there’s a credible action. Now, there’s lots of different reports coming out, but the common ground at the moment is that one vessel has reported that two IRGC gunboats opened fire and potentially hit the ship. Now, that in itself if they were genuinely serious about taking down shipping, you’d have anti-ship missiles and all sorts of other things. This feels much more like a very overt threat that we are serious. So that vessels that are on their way through just get out the way. Any other vessels turned around and we’re already seeing evidence of that happening. The fact that Mojtaba Khamenei has also turned around and said our navy that was destroyed — in other words, it’s not destroyed — will wreak havoc. I think all of that is still all about positioning for the potential for peace talks.
Daniel Davis: Yeah. Well, Sean Bell’s a little more optimistic there than I think conditions warrant that all of these things are set up for peace talks. And who knows, maybe that’s what President Trump is going to talk about tonight. Maybe he’s going to say yes, there is. Tune in here if that does happen. We’ll certainly be on top of that if that’s the case. But let’s look at what’s happened there. That one of the other things he said there at the last is also really important because you had the Supreme Leader at least a statement ascribed to him. He’s still not been seen in public. He’s not been seen even in video. So maybe it’s him, maybe it’s not. Maybe it’s somebody controlled. Doesn’t really matter. That’s what the Iranian government is putting out. So, just a kind of a caveat there. But the point is that our navy is going to inflict a defeat.
Now, you’ve heard President Trump and I think he even did in that soundbite I showed a minute ago again say the same thing. He says so many times, “Their navy has been destroyed. Their air defense has been destroyed. Aircraft has been, you know, all this stuff.” Well, now then they demonstrated physically that it has not because they sent those attack boats that I keep telling you over and over. There’s potentially up to 3,000 of those things hidden away in all kinds of bunkers and underground facilities that are adjacent to the water. And now here they have brought a couple out to demonstrate how viable they are. And again, it is so crucial to understand. I think I do agree with Sean Bell in that last part where he said I don’t think this was an attempt to destroy the ships because we’ve seen they did that in the opening rounds and you know this catastrophic fires that we’ve seen some at night that were really dramatic. Some in the daylight big plumes of smoke. That’s what they do if they want to destroy it. But if they just attacked some with some of these boats and of course these boats have anti-ship missiles on them. So they could have used those boats to destroy the shipping. But I think that is more likely the case that they just want to demonstrate we can do that, turn back around and they’re wanting to tell everybody to include anyone in the White House. We’re in control of the Strait of Hormuz.
Now, this by itself is a big problem for the United States. Trump thinks he can talk his way out of this stuff because he’s talked his way out of everything in the world up to this point. Now, we finally, I think, have gotten to that point that I keep warning about so many times and for so many years that when spin comes face to face with reality, reality will win every time once you get to the point. You can talk and you can massage and whatever while you’re out here before you reach that point, but at some point there’s going to come that moment when you can’t talk your way out of it. And I think we’re at that point now with Iran. And they’re demonstrating with physical action. We’re in control of this and you’re going to have to submit to our terms or you’re going to have to give us terms anyway that we can live with. And they’re pretty high level or we’re going to keep control of it.
Now, this is where it gets troubling because there is a clock ticking or more accurately maybe there is a financial time clock that is adding up costs to the United States and that is not even the United States but to the whole world and that’s something that this former Qatari intelligence official in frustration talked about earlier today even late last night here in Qatar and in the GCC the fact that the so-called opened but controlled Strait was unclear and anything that is this vital and this murky in its explanation it shouldn’t surprise us if it changes again and multiple times. The only hope is really for the US and Iran to sit down and have serious negotiations because this while a welcomed ceasefire clearly is not achieving its goals yet and we’re running out of time.
Yeah, we’re running out of time. No goals have been achieved because President Trump keeps moving the goalpost and just shifting them all over the place to where nobody knows what is the objective. What are we trying to accomplish? What are we trying to even get to? How are we going to get this open? Because so far, and you’re going to see some more examples here in just a few minutes, some from today, some from last night, Trump still wants to try to talk his way out of it.
But we’re running into the reality on the ground where the costs are continuing to tick up. Let me just show you here. This is showing you before the war. This is what the traffic normally looked like. Each one of those is a white line where ships were passing through. You see a couple things to notice here. The left one is before the war and the last one was between April 3rd and 12th. That’s why there was still some limited traffic out. So you do see a few of kind of little white hairs if you will around there. But notice importantly the routes. See that? See that there were two routes. One is coming in and one is going out. And they’re about I think about 2 miles wide each because there’s a lot of traffic around 130 tankers per day were moving in this path here. And you see that was because that’s the deepest part of the waters where it’s easy to control and that way you don’t have any collisions or anything like that. You have it controlled in. Then on the right hand side, number one, you see obviously only a fraction of the number of tankers getting in or out, but you see them one path in and out. And that is because there is evidence that Iran has mined that middle part there. And even when they were saying that yesterday that the Strait was going to be opened up pursuant to the United States fulfilling their obligations, they said you have to do it in coordination with our approved routes because it’s still dangerous in there.
So that by itself told you that even when Iran was willing to open the thing up that it was going to be according to their terms and they were going to remain in control of it. It would be open, but they would not relinquish control of it. And listen, we got to understand that I as I’ve done a couple of shows here in the last yesterday specifically about a lot of the baked-in problems. We had a few days ago, we had Sean Germy talking about how he thinks already baked in is a recession already and it could be a depression if it keeps going along. Many more people are coming to that same conclusion. In fact, Fatih Birol of the International Energy Agency says the loss of energy output in the Middle East will take about 2 years to recover. So, it’s going to take years to recover from all this stuff already, which means that even once all of this is solved diplomatically by whatever means and that’s assuming that it is because who knows it may not get solved in any time in the near term at all, at least not getting back to the way it was. But even from that point, whenever that point is, and eventually it’ll arrive, that it’s going to take a couple of years to replace everything. And that’s as of now, folks. That’s as of right now. If this war reignites next week when this current ceasefire period runs out on Wednesday and there is more damage to the energy infrastructure, you can just keep moving that date further out, expanding it even further. So, we’ve built in and baked in all kinds of trouble. It’s going to be difficult to overcome as of now. But if we are foolish enough and turn this back into a hot war, then the damage to the global economy is going to be profound and severe.
And you see the Qatari official there. They’re already very worried about it. Well, it’s not only that. There’s confusion in the United States itself. The upper left hand headline there is on the 15th of April. So about 3 days ago. Secretary Treasurer Scott Bessent says US will not be renewing waivers for Iranian and Russian oil. Darn it. We’re just not going to do it. So, forget — oh, wait a minute. Two days later, US lifts sanctions on Russian oil despite earlier assurances. And you see that Osen technical there. The US dropped a Friday night late notice lifting sanctions on Russian oil for another month. Comes just two days after Treasury Secretary Bessent said the US would not return the waiver.
So seriously, just what are we doing? I had mentioned already that on the one hand, we relieve sanctions on the Russian oil. We relieve sanctions on the Iranian oil. In the beginning of this, Scott Bessent himself, that same guy, talks about how we’re jiu-jitsuing the Iranians. Haha. We’re showing them by relieving sanctions on them and increasing the amount of oil that they can produce and increasing the amount of money they can get. That’s out jiu-jitsuing them. That by itself was weird. Now, here we stay weird. What are we doing at the national level? Believe me, our adversaries and our allies alike are viewing this and they’re scratching their head and they’re going, “Seriously, WTF, man, what is going on here? How can anyone have any confidence that we’re moving in a direction that’s going to get this taken care of?” Meanwhile, the cost is really starting to pile up.
Now, that’s what you need to understand. While all of this nonsense is going on and all of this contradictory information, the cost doesn’t stop accruing. It still keeps going up. And here, this is Kasam Al Ali who covers global energy markets for the Middle East for MSC Finance. He put some data together and he’s shown listen the last time crude oil inventories were this low and he’s talking about global inventories, Brent hit 147. Right now we’re at 85. And I’ll explain that in a minute. But he’s talking about the physical inventories. He said in 2020 at the peak there were 3,200 million barrels of oil in the COVID glut. And then in 2022 when the economics from around the world after COVID started opening back up then it went down to about 2400. Then in 2024 it was about 2,300 and then 2026 current past we’re now at 2,650. That’s a 1,100 million barrel drain in just six years. And then he says now add the Strait of Hormuz is closed. 9 million barrels a day is shut in production. Meaning of that what I told you yesterday that because the storage facilities in five of the six GCC countries is full. They have to stop producing. The strategic reserves have already been depleted in various countries around the world at their post 2022. That buffer is gone. And $147 wasn’t a ceiling last time. So this number right now and let me see. I believe that the current number this was at the end of yesterday at the end of the closing. So this is because of President Trump’s comments yesterday. The price dropped down to $85.50. A huge drop from where it was. It’s like I think 117 is the highest it was, but because what President Trump said right before the market closed, it’s like, yeah, we’re good to go. That’s not a problem. So now everybody believed what he said. I don’t know why. I don’t know why anybody believed that, but there is some evidence and Larry Johnson’s going to be speaking to this in just a minute when I show you what we learned this week is that it looks like it was a market manipulation deal. Maybe that’s all it was. I don’t know. I don’t know if there’s some other things going along with it, but that is definitely one because somebody made hundreds of millions of dollars when that price dropped down. But you see this GCC fellow here, he’s talking about, look, the numbers are what they are. The last time they were this low, the price was $147 a barrel. There’s also, and we talk about this too, the price that the tankers pay when they do fill up, wherever they fill up, it’s in the 140 range today. The whole market thing is I think flawed and I wonder if it’s even going to change at this point because what it’s projecting for the future and understand that number there was for next about a month from now but the price it’s paying today is based on all that shortage it’s 140 something which is why your gas price is high in the United States even though you say oh well the number dropped down here so I should go to the gas station today and it should go down because it was up a dollar I should go down today and you’ll probably find that it’s either not down and might be up and that’s because the price that it actually cost the physical cost today of a barrel of oil is around 140-144 somewhere around there and they’re saying that the fundamentals this spin is it may help somebody cheat the system and make a few hundred million dollars but it certainly isn’t going to help you at the gas pump and at some point those things are going to come back into equilibrium the actual inventories, the lack of production and the rising of the prices is going to be a problem for you. And of course, that means petroleum products of all course you have airliners running out of jet fuel and are projected to run critically low. KM yesterday announced that they had to cancel like 100 flights because they just don’t have enough jet fuel to go around. This is going to continue on. But then of course the other issue that’s really important is the fertilizer issue. Fertilizer flows from the Middle East remain blocked using fertilizer prices have surged by 87% to $720 per ton, the highest level in nearly three years. Farmers should send a bill for damages to Trump and Netanyahu. And you can see the graph there, how much this has gone up just since this war started. And of course, that has profound implications for where the war is going and the cost to it. And that’s why I keep saying over and over the costs are accruing. No matter what words you hear coming out of the White House, no matter what they claim on the ground, those costs keep going up because Iran shows they have physical control of the Strait of Hormuz. And that’s one of the reasons why you see here, look, this is just last night. So let me the upper left hand corner that’s from Ibrahim Alikar who is the spokesperson for the IRGC. This was yesterday afternoon in Washington time 4:57. So about 5:00 p.m. yesterday afternoon. This simple statement, we do not trust the enemy. Our finger is on the trigger. And then now then we have today we have this, you know, the this morning Iranian gunboats fire on a tanker in the Strait and it’s back closed again. So apparently that’s what he meant there. Then you see for the first time in several days you have the Ayatollah Khamenei making some statements and a couple one on X and one on Telegram. The one on X on the left if you can’t read those words there says the upward trajectory and the increase of the diverse capabilities of the army which safeguards the country from east to the west and from north to south must be continued and the necessary directives for the realization of this will be issued in the near future. One wonders if he’s also looking to the end of the ceasefire period. But then he says on the Telegram side, he said the Islamic army is now courageously defending the land, water, and flag that belongs to it just as it did in the previous two imposed wars. With its strong support from God and the people in compact solid ranks and standing side by side with their comrades from the other armed forces, it is battling the two leading armies of disbelief and arrogance. And the Islamic army has exposed those armies weakness and humiliation to the world. In the same way it’s done its drone strikes the US and Zionist murders like lightning. Its valiant navy is also ready to inflict a new and bitter defeat on its enemies. So that’s I think the shot across the bow. Those are definitely connected that the navy that Trump claims over and over had been destroyed came out and definitely put an exclamation point that the Strait of Hormuz is closed and Iran is in control of it and their navy is going to be calling the shots. So now then the question is going to be what is President Trump going to do? And that’s when it starts to get messy again.
Because so far, if I’m telling you that spin and reality have made and reality is going to win, that realization hasn’t hit President Trump yet. Because here’s what he said last night. First of all, about he said this the issue was asked about this nuclear material. One of the things remember yesterday on our show was asked about because President Trump said we’re going to get all their nuclear material. They’re going to promise never to block the Strait of Hormuz again. And they promised they would stop all their support to their proxies in the region. And we asked Professor Morandi, which you’ll see here in a minute. He said, “Yeah, no.” But President Trump then adds this last night. If we sign the agreement, then I can give you time somewhere after the signing of the agreement. We’ll go in with Iran. We’ll go in with Iran and we will take it together and we will bring it back 100% of it back to the United States. If we don’t do that, we will get it in a different form, in a much more unfriendly form.
So, we’ll get it in a much more unfriendly form. Now, just for the moment here, just imagine, let’s just look at this one piece in isolation. Given what’s happened here that Iran has not succumbed after 6 weeks of intense bombardment 13,000 targets struck in Iran they remain in control of the Strait of Hormuz as we speak they still have a missile force and it still was viable showing that prior to the ceasefire it was still viable and it was still hitting targets they still have a viable drone force they clearly still have a viable naval capacity the one that actually works in the Strait of Hormuz and they are definitely militarily quite viable. Now upon what basis if put yourself in the Iranian shoes here upon what basis are you going to agree after the last round of negotiations in Islamabad did not produce anything at all and Vice President Vance exited by saying this was our last final option. They didn’t agree to our terms. We told them what was going to have to happen. They said no. And then there’s been a basically a ceasefire ever since that time. Now then they have issued a threat that their navy was going to win and that the Strait of Hormuz is closed. On that basis can you come up with any rational reason why the Iranian side would go you know what everything we didn’t agree to in the past everything we didn’t give in because of all the military pressure here take it. Sure. And in fact not only can you have it you can come get it. We’re going to allow you to come into our country and humiliate us in front of the world and all of the people in our country and you can just walk out with it. Do you think that’s what happened? Do you think that behind the scenes somebody from Iran actually said that to the United States? Call me skeptical. Hell no. Of course they didn’t. Therefore, we can only conclude that was complete fiction. Totally made up. And one wonders why he may have done that. Why would you make up something like that? That is illogical at face value, but will certainly never be manifested on the ground. Unless, of course, he’s setting it up for the last part of what he said there, which is, well, if they don’t, then we’ll go get it by force. One wonders if that’s presaging something that’s to come.
That wasn’t the only thing he said last night. The other thing he said was at the end of this time once we have a deal are the Iranian side going to be allowed to remain in control of the Strait of Hormuz and charge a toll. Sir, in the Strait are there going to be restrictions and tolls managed by Iran for ships and vessels passing through? No way. None at all. No restrictions, Mr. President. When I say no restrictions, yeah, the restrictions, you can’t do the tolls. No, they’re not going to be tolls. So every Iranian leader that I’ve seen whether that’s Khamenei I think that I’ve seen some of his earlier statements defined leaders have just categorically said we will never we will never relinquish control of the Strait of Hormuz that’s like that’s like entry point one there is no there’s no deal that can be reached that doesn’t include that that’s what they have said so far they put an exclamation point on that today so for President Trump to just say no way then he is again he is making irreconcilable statements that the two sides just won’t compromise on because they’re categorical here he’s categorical here so where is there any hope that this ceasefire leads to anything or that if there are talks that are announced later tonight what chance do they have when that’s again your entry points remember I mentioned this last time before the Islamabad comments I said that the two sides were already camped out so far apart that it’s there’s virtually no chance that they’re going to come together and that’s how it worked I made an analogy to the May 2025 first time talks between the Russians and the Ukraine side. They both entered with very hardcore positions that were irreconcilable that I think they ended up having three rounds if I’m not mistaken. They left on the third one the same as they before the first one and to where they are to this day. Those same dynamics are seeming to be at play here. Therefore, one wonders what’s going to happen when this time runs out and President Trump addressed that, too. If you don’t have a deal by Wednesday when the ceasefire ends, will you extend the ceasefire or will you I don’t know. Maybe not. Maybe I won’t extend it. Okay. But the blockade is going to remain, but maybe I won’t extend it. So you have a blockade and unfortunately we’ll have to start dropping bombs again. So maybe that’s been the whole point of all this and the previous two comments was well if we don’t have a deal and this ceasefire time comes to an expiration next Tuesday at midnight I think and so Wednesday morning guess we may have to start dropping some bombs again.
So when you have set conditions, two of which were ironclad, the Iranian side says categorically they will not be willing to do and they certainly aren’t going to do it in between now and Tuesday, even if there are some announcements of meetings. And in fact, CNN was reporting late last night, I saw that there could be a meeting tomorrow in Islamabad on Monday. We’ll see if that comes to pass. Wouldn’t surprise me if it does. I hope that it does. It’s reasonable that it will, but it’s also reasonable and unless President Trump changes his position pretty strongly, the Iranian side with their action today with Khamenei statement about that the Navy will win with these symbolic strikes on these tankers that happened and their definite defiance this is closed. They’re not going to give in on anything. They’re obviously talking. They know that there’s the likelihood or the possibility of talks tomorrow or coming in, but they’re clearly saying we’re over here and Trump then just staked out last night and again today in the Oval Office that he still is acting like he’s in the driver’s seat and that he has all the cards which he said before and the Iranian side just threw down a couple of cards on the table and says match it.
President Trump has been unable through diplomacy, through twisting things around, through words, through Truth Socials, every other way from the 28th of February all the way through to this moment as we’re speaking the Strait is in Iranian hands. He has not been able to compel them to change it by any means. Why do you think he’s going to be able to do it now? Why would resuming the war later on when we already have burned through so much of our stockpiles of interceptor missiles, offensive missiles, all kinds of other weapon systems, lost a bunch of people, lost a bunch of bases. The damage to the facilities of our allies has been damaged that it’s going to take a couple years to even get back once this is over. Why would you think that when all of that failed that resuming the conflict with less stocks with already greater damage going in and that clock keeping ticking on the cost that’s piling up? Why do you think that’s going to work? I hope that he doesn’t. I hope that he recognizes that at some point and we move on to getting a chance to get this solved. Just man he’s gonna some somebody the Iranians or President Trump is to get this over with and to have the war not resume next week or at the end maybe they’ll extend it I hope that happens to every day gives us a chance and some a little bit of oxygen to keep alive the hopes that somebody finally acknowledges reality and gives in and of course that’s almost certainly going to be the United States because we started this war therefore the Iranian side would be foolish to give into it and believe something that we said given the history.