---
ingest_date: 2026-05-21
pub_date: 2025-06-24
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
thread: freeman
show: Judging Freedom
host: Andrew Napolitano
guest: Charles Freeman
title: "AMB. Charles Freeman : Why Presidents Love War."
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
source_note: Operator pasted full transcript in Codex chat. Direct YouTube watch URL not yet recovered.
quality_note: Normalized to remove sponsor/promo copy and transcript noise; minor artifacts may remain.
opening_tier: host-tease
---

Hi everyone, Judge Andrew Napolitano here for Judging Freedom. Today is Tuesday, June 24th, 2025. Ambassador Charles Freeman will be with us in just a moment on why do presidents love war.

Ambassador Freeman, welcome here. Uh my dear friend, were you surprised uh when Donald Trump uh sent 30,000 pound u bunker busters over Iran on Saturday night only to find that he was bombing areas that had been evacuated of nuclear material and centrifuges. Yes, I was surprised. Um it's uh it's not clear what this accomplished um other than symbolic uh assault on Iran. It was certainly a violation of international law. Uh it has left a mess. We now have an uncertain ceasefire apparently proclaimed by President Trump. not clear that uh uh what the terms are uh and what uh what may have been promised to Iran or Israel uh or Qatar as the intermediary uh for these for this ceasefire but it raised it leaves a huge number of questions and it hasn't really answered anything. Is is it clear to you that the United States of America is subordinated to the national security whims of the government of Israel? It appears to be the case. Yes. Um we've seen quite a battle inside the administration between America firsters. um those who believe the president's commitment to putting American interests before all else and Israel firsters uh and of course uh uh the president himself is torn on this issue because u uh he is beholden to wealthy Zionist donors um uh to whom he may have promised various things during the campaign. Here's one of those Israel firsters. This is really reprehensible. I don't know if you've seen it. This is Tammy Bruce whom I know she uh we worked together at Fox for a number of years. She is the official spokesperson for the State Department of the United States of America. Here what she thinks about the relationship between the United States and Israel. Uh Chris cut number nine. The the pride of being able to be here and do work that facilitates uh making things better for people. Uh, and in the greatest country on earth, next to Israel. In the greatest country on earth, next to Israel. Um, it is uh it's an honor to be able to make a difference and to be able to speak in this regard uh with an administration that I love so much. I couldn't imagine somebody saying that and keeping their job as recently as 10 years ago. No, it's really shocking. But then of course u we're seeing um our government enforce censorship on behalf of Israel, a foreign country, deport people for saying things that are critical of Israel, a foreign country. Um acting on behalf of a foreign country militarily at the risk of American servicemen and women's lives. Um threatening the national security of the United States u on behalf of Israel, a foreign country. it is a foreign country. Um, and the effort by Israel to confuse uh itself or to equate itself with the world's Jews uh is uh is a menace to them um as well as to Israel itself ultimately. What um what was gained militarily by the American attacks on Iran? You're a former um assistant secretary of defense. From that perspective, what was gained? I don't think anything was gained. Uh it's pretty clear that the uh enriched uh highly enriched uranium that is the uranium enriched to 60%. Um was taken away and has been kept safe in other locations. uh uh the uh you that you cannot destroy a nuclear program uh by bombing facilities or even by assassinating nuclear scientists as Israel has done in the case of about 20 people. Um and uh so from a military point of view although Israel proclaimed has proclaimed that it accomplished its war aims uh it really accomplished nothing. Um, and the war leaves Israel aware of its own vulnerability to Iranian reprisal. It leaves the United States aware of its vulnerability to Iranian reprisal. Although the Iranians u signaled to us ahead of time that they were going to strike the air base in Qatar, Alade air base uh and therefore no one was killed or wounded. um and they still demonstrated that they can reach out and touch us whenever they want and that they're willing to take the risk of doing so. So I don't think militarily anything was accomplished. Um and I think it as I said a huge number of uncertainties were created. Will Iran remain in the non-prololiferation treaty? Will there ever be any kind of inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency again permitted in Iran? um what is the effect on the internal uh politics of Israel and uh and Iran. Um and uh now we have a situation where the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, the Arabs on the Persian Gulf, um Saudi Arabia, Qatar, UAE, uh Kuwait, uh Bahrain, all have good reason to doubt whether the presence of American forces on their soil uh protects them or in fact constitutes a sort of uh threat um that um attracts attention to them, an attractive nuisance, if you will, um that that draws uh draws attacks. So, I think the future of those bases is now up in the air. Uh how long will they remain if they if they if if they do? Um and finally, I think Israel is not more secure as a result of this. Iran's nuclear program has not been ended. Um uh in fact it most likely a result of this whole episode the 12 days of Israeli attacks and American uh Americans joining them in assaulting Iran is that Iran is now very very likely actually to make a weapon make a nuclear bomb which it didn't didn't plan to do before and um the whole fabric of the non-prololiferation effort globally fully is in doubt and we're left in a confused state with a ceasefire that has no published terms. No, no, no one knows what Yeah. If if it's just uh the president spewing out what he wants the state of affairs to be or if there really is a ceasefire. I smiled when you said attractive nuisance shades of the first year of law school. Exactly. both of us, which for both of us was a long time ago. Your argument about you can't kill a nuclear knowhow by bomb was echoed by a former secretary of state of the United States with with whom you and I don't. This is very interesting what he said. Chris, cut number 11. Christian, it's impossible for me to speculate as to exactly what's going on in either the president's mind or the national security team. I do think people have to be realistic here in understanding what the choices are. You cannot bomb away uh the memory of how to make a bomb. You can't bomb away the knowledge that they have developed. You can't bomb away, you know, the the broad array of technicians who've been working on this for years, uh who will go back to work if that's the mission they're given by the leadership of the country. And and one of the dangers one of the dangers here is that the that the more this goes on in a military way, the more power goes to the worst defenders within Iran, the IRGC. Yeah, I agree with him. Right. Right. Right. Uh you made an interesting question about the ceasefire. um, Congressman Thomas Massie, who's receiving a lot of verbal fire from the president because he is the premier defender of the Constitution in all of the United States Congress and the president doesn't give a damn about the Constitution. Uh, nevertheless, uh, asks uh, if the United States is part of this fire, press cut number 13. He's called you a simple-minded grandstander. MAGA doesn't know him, doesn't like him. That you think it's a good idea that Iran have the highest nuclear level weapon while at the same time yelling death to America. That you're disrespectful to our great military. Uh that you're a pathetic loser and and and the like. Um what do you think of that? Well, you know, I tweeted his message to me and I said, you know, the president's declared war against me so much I think he needs an act of Congress to validate this. I saw that. Um, sassy sassy was the hashtag in some sense. I have the Trump antibodies. And I do want to point out that this ceasefire so far doesn't mention anything about what our bombing of Iran was predicated on, which is destroying a so-called nuclear program. Well, does this mean that Trump's a party to the ceasefire? He says that Iran and Israel are. I hope the United States is as well because if it's not, we're going to have to push this through Congress. Well, that that isn't You know what, Congressman Massie, I will say it. You make an excellent point. He's always uh on point, Massie. Uh I'm not sure how much he actually does, but he says the right things. And very clearly um uh this uh attack on Iran was not only a violation of international law, but a violation of the US Constitution. It was not authorized by Congress. Um, in fact, uh, Congress wasn't even briefed on on either the alleged intelligence supplied by Mossad and Israel, uh, undoubtedly doctorred for effect or, uh, the which was the rationale for the attack or the purposes of the attack or what happened during the attack. And um and at this point um uh we don't know much of anything except that uh Israel clearly was in the was running out of the ability to intercept the incoming missiles from Iran was hurting um and beginning to talk about the need to bring the war to an end and the Amir of Qatar evidently uh took advantage of perhaps at American uh instance the long-standing Iran Ian statement that they would in fact engage in a ceasefire if they if they weren't shot at. So if Israel stopped attacking them, they would stop their reprisals. And that's apparently the basis of the so-called ceasefire that uh well, we'll see. We'll see how how long it lasts. I thought Congressman Massie made an extra an excellent point. Is the United States part of the ceasefire? Is the United States going somehow to enforce the ceasefire? From my observations and I think yours, Donald Trump doesn't manipulate Netanyahu. It's the other way around. Netanyahu manipulates Donald Trump. But how can you enforce a ceasefire that has no known terms? Correct. And uh you know if Donald Trump has a a view of what the ceasefire entails, it's pretty clear from the initial fumbling and violations of alleged violations of the so-called ceasefire that there is no common understanding between Tehran and and Israel. Um and uh so um I think this is uh this is a very unstable situation and the only thing that the war really accomplished was to obscure the continuing genocide in Gaza and take attention off that. So here's a question. What happens now to Gaza? What happens to the hostages? What happens to the Palestinians who are hostage to Israel and who are being devastated by Israel murdered? I don't know. Why? Why doesn't Donald Trump insist on a universal ceasefire? Why doesn't he stop the genocide? Why is he still paying for it? He can't He can't answer these questions. By what conceivable legal or moral authority did the United States attempt to destroy a lawful, monitored, examined, and internationally recognized uh nuclear enrichment program subject to an international treaty which every country that has nuclear weapons except one has signed? Well, that of course is the key question. You also have to address the damage to American credibility and diplomatic potential. Uh when twice the United States has used a an alleged commitment an apparent commitment to negotiations as cover for surprise attack. Um and uh one might even argue that uh uh in the case of Ukraine's surprise attack on the Russian bomber force there too there was the use of a negotiation at Istanbul as cover for a surprise attack. So apparently Pearl Harbor is now the norm. Uh I don't think that's an improvement in the world affairs. Wow. What is the uh damage uh done to Israel by Iran compared to the damage done to Iran by Israel? I'm going to guess that from all the reports we get from our military folks that Israel is running out of the projectiles that it uses to shoot down incoming missiles. That it was the Netanyahu regime uh that implemented their request for a ceasefire, not the Iranians. I think that's probably correct. Although the battle damage, the physical damage, uh the murders of scientists and military officials, u clearly were far greater on the Iranian side than they were on the Israeli side. But the importance of this is that this is the first time really that Israel has had to take its own medicine, which it deals out routinely to all its neighbors. Uh it has been bombed. uh it has shown it has been shown that it cannot defend itself against attacks from the air in this case attacks largely from space. So this is a fundamental shift in the in the balance of uh of perceptions at least u uh in in West Asia and I don't know where it's going to take us. um it's doesn't leave us more secure in any respect and I think uh again uh we have to ask the question you know why are we doing this you asked the question at the outset why do presidents love war presidents love war is that it augments their authoritarian tendencies and and and their ability to control things at home and we've already seen statements that well there's sleeper cells from Iran on in the United States and we all have to be vigilant and we have to up the level of police control and behave more like a police state. Uh this is what happens during wars. This is what James Madison was afraid of when he insisted that the Congress rather than the president have the right to declare war. Wow. I don't know if uh you have seen this. Uh it's a few years old. It's an interview of General Wesley Clark talking about uh his reaction when he first learned of all the countries that the United States the uni party because it doesn't matter who the president is uh is committed to undermining. Here's what Chris. We can have people over there stir taking that telling the Ukrainians that we're going to back more. What we're trying to do is calm this down. What President Trump is trying to say is look, look, we can't have Lindsey Graham and particularly Zelensky leading us into a third world war with a deep strike into Russia. And Putin came back today and said, "Hey, we're going to get to the bottom of this and we're going to see who's accountable in Ukraine and beyond." And that was a message to the United States. What he's doing over there right now is stirring it up. is giving Ukrainians false hope that we're there to support them on engaging Russia in a kinetic conflict and we are not. Two things ought to happen. Either cancel his passport and don't let him back in the country or put him in jail if he comes back. And people better wake up to the fact that we're getting sucked into this war. If the intelligence community actually did this, this is an act of war against Russia. Did the American people vote to go to war with the Russian people? Five years ago. Yeah. Well, since then, of course, um pretty much in line with that scenario, we've seen Israel take on with us that entire agenda. And now we hear Israelis saying, "Well, ultimately all this is preparation uh for our need to take out Turkey, u a NATO ally, um uh a country that is a middle ranking power in world affairs. Um much more powerful than Iran or uh any of the others that have been uh been savaged. So where does this end?" Um this is a real question. Uh Wesley Clark mentioned the the notion of regime change which seems to have been the primary objective here since you can't bomb a nuclear program out of existence and you try to change the leadership. But the fact is historically whenever this has been done usually the successor leadership has been more nationalistic, more determined and often less competent or at least less respectful of human rights than its predecessor. And inside Iran, nationalist forces have been greatly strengthened. The arguments of those in Iran who've been who've been advocating the development of a nuclear deterrent have been greatly strengthened. So if the 86-year-old Ayatollah Kamune who is the supreme leader uh indeed yields to a successor that successor is likely to be more troublesome than he was. So what have we accomplished? Wow. What damage has Netanyahu done to himself uh with this war against Iran? Well, he's clearly in the short term, we've seen the usual rally around the flag reaction from many Israelis. Um varying of of the severe divisions in Israeli society. There's been a huge exodus, by the way, out of Israel. the Israelis prohibited departure from Israel, but people did make to manage to make it to Cyprus as a way out. Um I think um the divisions in Israel have not been repaired by this. they've probably been aggravated and again we come back to you know what are those divisions a collapsing economy um that economy has just been subjected to huge uh stress under uh amazingly large daily expenditures to defend against uh uh under counterattack from Iran to a war that Israel started. uh the issues inside Israeli democracy have not changed. the theological thugs who inhabit the Israeli cabinet are still there and sounding off uh the uh the divisions in Israel uh which are multiple and include the hostage issue and the desire of the hostage families to have their loved ones back alive or unfortunately if they're if they're dead uh at least have the body back um has not been satisfied and again I come back to you know what happens to what happens to the West Bank. Uh what happens to Israel itself now that it's identified itself to the world as an utter outlaw? Uh a country uh uh one of the former um uh one of the commentators in Israel in the press described Prime Minister Netanyahu as the most despicable Jew in history. uh and the damage that has been done globally and to the Jewish reputation and to our reputation is immense. Wow. We'll end at that. Uh ambassador, thank you for your courage and your intellectual acuity. Thank you for sharing your time with us, my dear friend. It's 100° here today in New York. I hope it's a little cooler in New England where you are. Not much. Not much. All right. We'll see you next week. Thank you, ambassador. All the best.
