---
ingest_date: 2026-05-21
pub_date: 2025-07-08
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
thread: freeman
show: Judging Freedom
host: Andrew Napolitano
guest: Charles Freeman
title: "AMB. Charles Freeman : Can Trump Stop Netanyahu?"
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
source_note: Operator pasted full transcript in Codex chat. Earlier external discovery suggested a nearby July 7 index hit; transcript opening says Tuesday, July 8th, 2025. Direct YouTube watch URL not yet recovered.
quality_note: Normalized to remove sponsor/promo copy and transcript noise; minor artifacts may remain.
opening_tier: host-tease
---

Hi everyone, Judge Andrew Napolitano here for Judging Freedom. Today is Tuesday, July 8th, 2025. Ambassador Charles Freeman will be here with us in just a moment on can Donald Trump stop Benjamin Netanyahu.

Ambassador Freeman, welcome here uh my friend. We missed you last week. A lot of us did and we're glad that you're able to be uh back with us. Before we get to an extended conversation about what you expect or think uh Prime Minister Netanyahu asked President Trump for last night uh at dinner, I want to explore your thoughts and your analysis of President Trump's policy on Ukraine. I mean, does he have a policy on Ukraine? Last week, the Secretary of Defense, you're very familiar with the Defense Department. Last week, the Secretary of Defense announced uh a delay or a hold up on four um pieces of military equipment or four types of equipment that the Ukrainians want. The president said he knew nothing about it. Yesterday he said he's resuming the shipments and sending more. I guess this is Donald Trump's war now. seems to be um of course the reality is that uh we are we have overdrawn our military stocks. Uh we can't really handle both the proxy war in Ukraine and the proxy war uh that Israel is conducting in the uh in the Levant. And u and so uh this is not pleasant reality. Um, turns out we don't have the infinite capacity that the president sometimes seems to imagine we do. So, where does this leave us with Ukraine? We are back with a Joe Biden spot, I guess, flowing fully. We still have uh an American general and his team uh in Germany working with American intel who are all throughout Ukraine helping them identify and locate Russian targets. We're still in this as deep as we were when Joe Biden was president. Is that a fair summary from your perspective, Ambassador? It sure seems so. Um you ask where we are. We're in a state of confusion. Um, and uh that confusion includes uh going back on autopilot apparently. Uh it's not clear what all this is supposed to produce. Uh it's directly contrary to the uh platform uh that the president has been um campaigning on. Uh and but I guess it reflects reality. The question now really is what is the impact uh if we're going to be supplying Ukraine with all kinds of things that that the defense department was preparing to divert to Israel. Uh what does that do to Israel? Here's um President Trump last night at a dinner in the White House with Prime Minister Netanyahu and others from the Prime Minister's team and from uh Trump's uh inner circle. Apparently, there were reporters there before the food was actually served and they asked Trump the question about whether or not he's going to send more weapons to Ukraine. Chris, cut number eight. Are you planning to send more weapons to Ukraine? Uh, we're going to send some more weapons. We have to They They have to be able to defend themselves. They're getting hit very hard now. They're getting hit very hard. We're going to have to send more weapons. Your defensive weapons primarily. Uh, but they're getting hit very, very hard. So many people are dying in that mess. Yeah. Well, he could stop it with with a phone call or or poke the elbow of the guy next to him and say, you know, let's let's end this. Uh but he chooses to continue to send weapons. I wonder what his conversation with President Putin was like. The conversation he said displeased him Trump very much. Well, there was a statement by uh Sergey Lavro, the Russian foreign minister, very able foreign minister. um uh a detailed statement laying out the Russian position on ending the war uh in Ukraine and it turns out it hasn't varied at all uh since December 2021 when u when the Russians u uh issued an ultimatum and then February 22 implemented it uh when there was no response no openness to negotiation or discussion in the west. So, uh, that on that level, nothing has changed, but, uh, it it's not clear what the president thought the Russians were willing to do or why this war occurred, uh, and therefore uh, had a real strategy for stopping it. It hasn't stopped. It's gone on and apparently, as you said, we're back in it. Uh Scott Ritter has referred to or or analogized Ukraine to a hospice patient uh just being made comfortable but uh waiting for the end to come. Do you share that analogy? Uh yes. Uh if you add in the adoring relatives who uh are in denial about the uh situation of the patient, yes, that's probably a good analogy. Um, you know, Ukraine is really on the ropes. Uh, and I I guess what we're seeing in the with this uh uh flip-flop by the president is um an unwillingness to take responsibility, to accept accountability for um Ukraine uh not dying, but um having to having to make it make its peace with Russia on Russian terms. We all know what the uh conditions are for the Russians to cease their special military operation. As you pointed out, Ambassador, they haven't changed one iota uh from February 22 to July uh of 25. Yet, President Trump says he was upset with President Putin during their uh phone call last week. Do you think President Trump understands what's going on? understands the Russian mind, understands his counterpart. Um there's no evidence he does. Um he's focused on a ceasefire. That's something that u uh the losing side always wants. Um uh we are losing in Ukraine. Uh there's no uh the ceasefire does not include any terms that satisfy the Russian conditions. uh which which involve u you know the three conditions u protection for Russian speakers in Ukraine or and now the incorporation recognition of the incorporation of the four eastern oblas plus Crimea into Russia uh the neutralization of Ukraine and a a firm commitment that it will not pose a military threat to uh to Russia and third a broader discussion of European security architecture that would reduce the fears that Russia has uh of Western attack while reducing Western fears of Russian attack. These are the three conditions. They've been there from the beginning and we've consistently refused to discuss them. Most recently, we've been in apparent denial about and focus just on a ceasefire, which is, you know, a band-aid, not not a cure for the wound. It's almost inconceivable that Donald Trump doesn't understand what you just articulated. Uh, Foreign Minister Lavough and his boss, President Putin, have not deviated one iota uh, from their very rational demands. I don't even know if Trump understands the origin uh, of the uh, special military operation, which of course is the American CIA in 2014. the CIA plus the National Endowment for Democracy, which is apparently back in business, but no longer transparent. Wow. Meaning still being funded by the CIA, but not under that name. So, uh, being fun being funded by Congress, um, but, uh, not listing the the recipients of its large s anymore. uh it's gone dark basically. We have to remember that that organization was originally conceived as an alternative to covert action by the CIA uh when the church committee investigated the CIA, found all sorts of legal uh uh delinquencies and we and we uh we we moved some of the covert action out into the into the into the sunlight. Apparently, it's gone back into the dark. Now, I'm going to transition into Israel. Chris, do we have the uh clip of uh Tucker Carlson uh interrogating uh a senior senator from te Texas. Now, you may have seen this. Uh Ted Cruz shows an unbelievable, remarkable, almost decraased naive about the commands from the Old Testament controlling his hands today. Watch this. Growing up in Sunday school, I was taught from the Bible, those who bless Israel will be blessed and those who curse Israel will be cursed. So that's in the Bible. As a Christian, I believe that. Where is that? I I can find it to you. I I don't have the the scripture off the tip of my It's in Genesis. But where does where does my support for Israel come from? Number one, because biblically we are commanded to support Israel. But number two, hold on. No, not hold on. You're a senator. We are commanded to support Israel. And we're told those who bless Israel will be blessed. But what? Hold on. Define Israel. This is important. Are you kidding? I This This is a majority Christian country. Define Israel. Could Do you not know what Israel is? He he's talking about the nation of Israel. Yet nations exists and he is discussing a nation. A nation was the people of Israel. The nation referring to in Genesis. Is that the same as the country run by Benjamin Netanyahu right now? Yes. Yes, it is. Has the same undergraduate education that I do at Princeton and the same law school education that you do at Harvard. And he seems to think that God the father has told posterity to follow Benjamin Netanyahu. Yes. Well, you know, there's a famous remark um by a scholar of Israeli history Jewish uh who said that the founders of Zionism did not believe in God but were convinced that he had given them Palestine. Uh you know, so this is this is nonsense. Um uh Israel is uh in the Bible is an idea. It is an idea. It's in the Quran too. By the way, the children of Israel are the exemplars of morality in the in the Holy Quran. And so um to equate this with the modern state of Israel which was founded by atheists uh and which follows a completely uh uh uh amoral policy is really quite a twist. Politically advant advantageous I guess I guess it is politically advantageous for him to say that in Texas. I don't mean to demean the people of Texas, but anybody that uh agrees with him will probably have a tendency to vote for him. What do you think Netanyahu uh came for yesterday? Aside from flattering the president and ostentatiously on national television, handing him what purported to be a copy of a letter he sent to the Nobel Peace Prize Committee uh recommending uh the president probably the kiss of death for that nomination coming from Netanyahu. These are the same almost the same human pe human human beings not quite but the same mentality that indicted him for war crimes. Nevertheless, what do you think he came for yesterday? What was he asking Trump for? What is he trying to persuade Trump of? It's time to bomb Iran again. No, I think that the uh Israel is in real trouble um after the uh the exchange of fire with Iran. Um it was running out of interception capability. Some people say another week or two and it would have been flattened basically. It suffered huge damage which it's managed to conceal mostly because of military censorship but more and more of that is coming out you know about 41,000 claims of property damage uh a huge number of wounded people uh major institutions like the vitzman institute demona the nuclear center u various uh MSAD and um Aman military intelligence centers destroyed the ports of Nashad basically put out of commission for a while. This was a serious Iranian retaliation and it's the first that Israel's ever experienced and Israel needs reconstitution and where is it going to get it? It's going to get it from Donald Trump and the United States if history is any guide. Uh but I think the main point of this meeting really pretty pretty clearly from Netanyahu's point was to demonstrate to the people of Israel that he has the backing of Donald Trump in the United States. So this was in this case uh as is so often the case the meeting was the message. Um one could talk about what went on between the two of them and basically they're talking about a phony ceasefire. This is a ceasefire proposal negotiated between the United States and Israel in which the Palestinians are not uh involved. Essentially, it's setting terms for the surrender of the Palestinians and the extermination of Hamas. And it's not surprising that Hamas doesn't find this a very attractive proposal. Uh I think on the Israeli side also it's worth noting that once again in a 60-day ceasefire proposal, Israel has not committed to do anything but go back to war at the end of the so-called ceasefire. Uh so this is a uh setting the terms for Palestinian surrender and the Palestinians have spent the last 75 years refusing to surrender. I don't think they're going to do it now. Here are some uh headlines from uh newspapers in Israel this morning from ha arets. Look, look at the words that Chris has underlined. Concentration camp. Defense minister says Israel plans to concentrate all Gaza's population in a humanitarian zone built in on Rafa's ruins. Times of Israel plan said to outline humanitarian transit camps to house gazins before possible relocation. One of the retired IDF junk is much to prime minister Netanyahu's chagrin referred to uh Gaza as an openair concentration camp. I guess these are plans to build a closed air concentration camp. pretty much history is full of ironies. Of course, it was the British who invented the concentration camp and they did that during their war with the Africconers in South Africa. Um, and uh, Africconers of course were the inventors of a partate. Israel has uh, learned from the South African example and perfected it in a sense made it even worse. And now we're into concentration camps for Palestinians by uh people who themselves are the descendants of Nazi concentration camp inmates. You can't make this stuff up. No. No, you can't. And then irony is almost not a strong enough uh word uh to uh to describe it. Uh here's a member of Prime Minister Netanyahu's governing coalition. He's a member of the Knesset. This is uh horrific. But here's what he said two days ago. Chris cut number one. The war we are fighting today, which we embarked on the 7th of October, is a war against a Nazi enemy that threatened the existence of the Jewish people in the land of Israel. That is the whole truth. So the prime minister decided, the prime minister decided to do it sequentially. I'm with him. No problem. Let's do it sequentially. You eliminated. You dealt a a severe blow, maybe even more than that, to Iran. Now the time has come to deal with the Gaza Strip. How do we do that? You take off the glove, stop the humanitarian aid, cut off electricity, cut off water, start destroying and uh uh expel voluntarily, so to speak, voluntary migration the Gazans. There are no uninvolved people there, no innocents, no one who isn't guilty. As far as I'm concerned, they're all Hamas members. At the end of the war, there should be two images in the Gaza Strip. First, not a single Gazan remains, and all 50 of our hostages, 49 male hostages, and one female hostage, both living and deceased there, returned to the state of Israel. Is is this just the rantings of a right-wing fanatic or is this a generally accepted view amongst the Israeli population? Well, it's both the best impersonation of a Nazi that I've ever seen. Um but and uh it does represent the government policy of Israel. That's why they're talking about building concentration camps as a way station to uh expelling the Palestinians from that part of of of Palestine. Meanwhile, of course, while no one's watching, they're busily expelling everybody from the West Bank. There's quite an effort going on there to achieve what is called transfer, which is ethnic cleansing and expulsion. So, you know, one of the one of the crazy things that's been going on is that normally when you deal with genocide, you have great trouble find um demonstrating intent, but there's no question about the intent. You just heard it. That is, as I said, um the best demonst demonstration of Nazilike thinking that you could possibly imagine. and it is now the majority opinion in Israel. Is the uh director of the CIA John Ratcliffe aside asset? Um he is a politician uh and his bread is buttered by the agents of Israel who are unregistered under the foreign agents registration act. Apac, Zionist Organization of America, a lot of others. Um, we know from u documentary evidence that a great number of the organizations in the United States that uh defend uh the uh Israeli policies uh and that try to discredit anyone who speaks uh uh uh critically of Israel or advocates self-determination for anyone other than than Jews in Israel. And you know, we know that all this is paid for by the Ministry of Strategic Affairs in Israel. And yet our Foreign Agents Registration Act uh exempts these organizations from registration. Uh very tortured reasoning uh uh and and and and really untenable, but it's a demonstration of the power of the Zionist lobby in the United States. Uh yesterday the president gave a little history lesson which in my view I suspect in yours shows a seriously seriously defective thinking and understanding but it's not that long. Let's listen to it. Chris cut number 10. They flew for 37 hours with zero problem mechanically. I mean, when you think and carrying the biggest bombs ever, the biggest bombs that we've ever dropped on anybody, when you think non-nuclear, and we want to keep it non-nuclear, by the way, but uh they did a phenomenal job. It was an amazing job and I think that was I was talking to BB about it before that was the very beginning of the end and ended very quickly after that. I don't want to say what it reminded me of, but if you go back a long time ago, uh it reminded people of a certain other event and his uh Harry Truman's picture is now in the lobby in a nice location on the lobby where it should have been, but that stopped uh a lot of fighting and this stopped a lot of fighting. When that happened, it was a whole different ball game. That's delusional, I have to say. Uh that's not what happened. Um uh what happened was uh Israel basically cried uncle. Iran had always said it would see it would cease fire on Israel if Israel ceased fire on it. Uh Israel was persuaded to cease fire on Iran and Iran was true to its word. Um uh I think you know the performative elements of this u dropping of a 30,000lb bomb on uh several of them actually about 70% of our inventory of them were dropped on Iran. Um the performative actions of that uh that that that represented were then reciprocated by the Iranians by telling everyone at Alade air base in Qatar to get out of the way while they carried out a performative strike on it. Uh so of course it's true that u uh the bombing by Israel, the bombing by the United States did set back the Iranian nuclear program, but my guess is that Iran had um clandestine sites prepared that it relocated uh the enriched uranium it had not only to to which was bombed um but elsewhere. And um this whole episode greatly strengthened the voice of the hardliners in Iran who have advocated going building a nuclear weapon. And my guess is that Iran uh is now uh probably doing the enrichment to weapons grade, not quite making a bomb because the fatwa the religious groups that have inhibited making a bomb uh remain in place and the Iranians would still like to do uh normalized relations with the West and especially the United States. uh but uh I think they're probably uh clandestinely enriching now. So what we've done is take a non-existent bomb and bring it much closer to existence. And Trump praises one of the most shameful acts in American history, the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki on a Japan within days of surrendering. Anyway, here's uh Professor Paulo Noguera, the former head of the uh International Monetary Fund. You may know him. Uh Chris cut number six. Iran is not only a very important country by itself in all respects, but it it is a link between Russia and India. It is the link possible link between Middle East oil and China. bypassing the straight of Horus. So Iran is strategically very important and that perhaps is in the minds of Americans and and Israelis when they are permanently hostile to Iran. Now Iran should have had a an atomic bomb a long time ago in my opinion because this is deterrence acting. You know, Iran failed to do that, tried to cooperate and now it has learned a lesson, I presume, and will go for a full-scale nuclear pro program in my opinion. Let's see. What do you think? Uh, I think Mr. Ngera is on to something. Uh basically what uh we have done is validate North Korea's response to maximum pressure which was to build an ICBM capable of striking the United States with a nuclear weapon. Um, I wouldn't be surprised to see Iran now uh develop an ICBM for the same purpose because the lesson is unless you have a nuclear weapon as Pyongyang has developed, uh, you're going to get, uh, Libyanized, um, you're going to get overrun, you're going to get attacked at will by those more powerful than you. So, I think he's probably correct. Um I I think it is actually quite extraordinary that given decades of provocation going back to the early 1980s about 1984 by Prime Minister Netanyahu and other Israeli politicians as well as their American camp followers uh that Iran has not developed a nuclear weapon. Um and uh uh I think probably we've we've provi we've provided those resisting doing that with the coupas. Ambassador Freeman, thank you very much. Thanks for your analysis. Deeply appreciated. Thanks for accommodating my schedule by joining us at this hour. We look forward to seeing you again next week, my friend. Thank you. Uh
