---
ingest_date: 2026-05-21
pub_date: 2025-05-13
kind: transcript
source_form: interview
thread: freeman
show: Judging Freedom
host: Andrew Napolitano
guest: Charles Freeman
title: "AMB. Charles Freeman : Who Won the US/Yemen War?"
source_type: youtube
transcript_type: operator_pasted_transcript
source_note: Operator pasted full transcript in Codex chat. Direct YouTube watch URL not yet recovered.
quality_note: Normalized to remove sponsor/promo copy and transcript noise; minor artifacts may remain.
opening_tier: host-tease
---

Hi everyone, Judge Andrew Napolitano here for Judging Freedom. Today is Tuesday, May 13th, 2025. Ambassador Charles Freeman will be here with us in just a moment. President Trump is in Saudi Arabia. Who won the war in Yemen? We'll be exploring all those ideas.

Ambassador Freeman, welcome here. Thanks very much for uh joining us, my dear friend. Uh I do want to talk to you at some length about the undeclared and now apparently over by truce or ceasefire war between the United States and Yemen. Uh but before we get there to the uh news of the moment, just a few minutes ago, President Trump arrived in Saudi Arabia where of course you were once uh the US ambassador and uh with whose and and you're very familiar with the culture and the politics of the country. What's awaiting him there? What's confronting him? What is he hoping to achieve? Well, Saudi relations with the United States have gone through quite a bad period. They were terrible under the Biden administration. In part because of the murder of my friend Jamal Kashogji in Istanbul in the Saudi consulate. in part uh because Saudi Arabia has been become increasingly skeptical about the value of the US relationship and US protection in part because of Saudi diversification of its international relations to include China which of course the United States is deeply concerned about. So uh what I think uh is happening in Saudi Arabia this time will reflect those realities and the political realignments in the region. Saudi Arabia is no longer an enemy of Iran although it remains skeptical but vigilant uh and concerned about Iran but it does not want to be part of any war with Iran and it's made that very clear. uh the possibility of Saudi Israeli normalization has rec receded and is essentially um unthinkable now uh given the Israeli genocide in Gaza. I think that issue will have to be discussed. Uh there are indications that the president is distancing the United States to some extent from Israeli policies uh and that the America firsters in his administration now have his ear more than the Israel firsters. But the big headline will of course be arm sales. Apparently there have been quite a few uh transfers arranged. There's also a big business conference going on in Riyad with many CEOs from the United States attending and uh I would expect that there will be a lot of business done. The United States basically wants to lock Saudi Arabia firmly into our embrace rather than have it go off on its own or uh sa sail into the embrace of China. Is there any chance of a recognition of uh the Jewish state uh without uh the United States recognizing and defending the sovereign independence of Palestine? There never has been. Um uh the Arabs have been consistent over many decades. They're prepared to accept relations, normal relations with Israel, recognize it only if uh there is self-determination for the Palestinians, security for the Palestinians. That's been the position forever. And um there have been several Arab peace initiatives which have offered peace to Israel. Israel has spurned that in favor of continued expansion and depopulation of Palestine. uh ethnic cleansing and now genocide. There are signs uh of a crack in the relationship between President Trump and Prime Minister Netanyahu. Uh some of the Western presses were you even using the phrase sick and tired. Trump is sick and tired of Netanyahu. There are of course some uh unmistakable facts here. The United States negotiated directly with Hamas for the release of this young uh American Israeli from New Jersey. The United States is providing humanitarian aid directly to Gaza. The United States stopped the killing in Yemen about which more later, but it did all of these things without uh Israeli and in some cases even knowledge, much less consent. and the uber super Zionist US ambassador to uh Israel uh Mike Huckabe was forced to say on international television we don't need Israel's permission for Russ for what we do I'm sure it was difficult for him to say it but he said it okay so all of these things happened do they lead you to believe uh that Mrs. Alison is losing influence, that Prime Minister Netanyahu is losing influence, that the president's thin skin and big ego have had enough. Well, he the president certainly has every reason uh to be annoyed with Mr. Netanyahu, who's not an ally of the United States. is a manipulator of American policy, contemptuous of of the United States and uh and often at odds uh with with the president uh including Mr. Trump. Uh so uh he certainly has reasons to be u to want to distance himself from Mr. Netanyahu. I think history also shows that the only way you can have any progress uh on issues involving Israel, the Arabs and Palestinians is if the United States takes the initiative and does what it believes necessary without regard uh to Israeli politics which at the moment are in a particularly poisonous condition. Uh so uh yes I think America firsters are gaining ground on Israel firsters. Uh I think those who envisage a uh a clean break to coin a phrase uh with Israel are probably dreaming um I doubt that's going to happen. Uh but clearly the United States is declaring a bit of independence from toutelage by Prime Minister Netanyahu. Um on Sunday there was a closed meeting of the foreign affairs and defense committee uh of the Knesset and someone at the uh meeting uh reported to Haets what this person says. Prime Minister Netanyahu told the committee. But this is the ha arets full screen in Hebrew. But the translation is now this is purportedly from Netanyahu's mouth. I think we will need to wean ourselves off American military aid. Well, Ambassador, if that's true, how could they possibly exist without American military aid? Well, they couldn't. Um and uh this is uh therefore a very significant statement by Prime Minister Netanyahu. I saw it earlier in a version a different version uh in the Russian media which described the relationship with the United States as toxic and that he said we have to detoxify uh our dependence on the United States. So, um, the problem here is that there's no one who could take the place of the United States in support of Israel. But I believe that this relationship has reached that stage. When I see the United States cease to veto recognition of a Palestinian state in the in the Supreme Security Council cease to protect Israel from charges of human rights violations which are entirely justified in the same forum or in the international court of justice. I haven't seen that. So what we have is uh some some talk uh uh bickering if you will uh between an old established couple. Will this lead to divorce? I don't know. An old established uh couple very old and unfortunately very well established. Let me ask you about the plane from cutter. You you know the Middle East mentality. Do they give away something worth $400 million without expecting something in return? Goodwill. Um, yeah. No, they're very generous. Uh, I don't think the problem is with the cutteries offering this. First of all, as an American, I find it somewhat humiliating that our president has to accept a gift rather than have the US Air Force provide a suitable aircraft for him. Um second uh uh this is an unconstitutional imalment from a foreign government pretty clearly in part because it's not only being given to the White House, it's apparently to be used by by President Trump when and if he steps down from office. So uh u I think there's a lot wrong with this but um it's really a reflection of the degree of disregard for uh the constitution and the laws in the United States and and our decadence and our corruption. Trump is uh scheduled to meet with of all people Al Galani, the al-Qaeda terrorist who now is the nominal head of the uh government in Yemen, excuse me, in in Syria. Uh and perhaps he hinted at this yesterday, even rescend sanctions. What cons and and of course Trump's own State Department had a $10 million bounty on Mr. Gelani's head with it which they since have have dropped. What conceivable benefit or what likely humiliation or what misfired signal to the international community could come about from this? Well, I'd say first um you have to give President Trump credit for a willingness to change his mind. Uh that's often a criticism of him that he's inconstant and unpredictable. Um he is inconstant and unpredictable but sometimes in a sensible way. Um in in the case of Syria, the United States has spent decades uh including recent years and spending $5 billion uh to destabilize Syria in the interest of Israel basically which has always wanted Syria to fragment and which is still pushing that line at the moment. uh we have bear a good deal of responsibility for the many hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of people dislocated uh and sent abroad from from Syria. Uh we bear some responsibility for the flood of refugees into Western Europe from Syria that has destabilized Western European politics in favor of the right wing. Uh so um if uh if we're going to condemn meeting uh Mr. Gelani uh which others have done as you see uh then I think uh we have to accept that we also should condemn our earlier behavior. Uh this is a classic case of the pursuit of American interests rather than Israeli interests of American interests in establishing a decent relationship and in the case of Syria the sanctions should never have been put on. U they have emiserated an enormous number of people. Uh Syria can't recover without those sanctions being removed. So I think this is a case of realism triumphing over hypocrisy. Would have been better if they had never imposed the sanctions in the first place. You say, "Yeah, here's President Trump uh yesterday teasing about the potential lifting of the sanctions. " Chris, cut number five. Don't underestimate Thursday in Turkey. Uh, President Erdogan is going to be a great host and uh, we are doing some work with him having to do with Syria too. By the way, we're going to have to make a decision on the sanctions which we may very well relieve. We may take them off of Syria because we want to give them a fresh start. I mean, you have to commend him for that. None of his predecessors was willing to do that. Is Alan is Al Galani going to become Thomas Jefferson? Certainly not. But uh you know they uh if he if he truly has repented of his sins which are uh well established that's all to the good. Um uh the he is trying to bring Syrians together. He's trying to deal with the aftermath of the horrors of civil strife in Syria, which we and others, the Israelis, the Turks, the British, uh, and to some extent the French, as well as people in the Gulf, uh, all backed. Uh, he's trying to pull his country together. Uh, and I think we need to give him a chance. Uh what did the US gain by spending a billion dollars bombing Yemen? Um not a thing. Um I think uh President Trump again demonstrated some character by expressing his admiration for the fortitude and resilience of the Ansar the Houthies uh who stood who stood up to pressure over the last decade. They've been continuously bombed both from Saudi Arabia with our support, more recently from Israel and from the United States and UK. They have not flinched uh and they have not conceded the point that they have the right in fact the obligation under the genocide convention uh to oppose the genocide in Gaza as best they can. And so they have reserved the right to continue to strike both Israel, which they have been able to do successfully despite Israeli air defenses and uh and shipping in the Red Sea that is bound to or from Israel or supportive of Israel. Let's get back to Prime Minister Netanyahu's lament, which we're not really certain how to translate it, but it's clearly a lament. He's either saying the relationship is toxic or we need to wean ourselves uh off of it. Either way, what will Netanyahu do if Trump and his negotiators agree to allow Iran a certain level of uranium enrichment for domestic civilian usually energy and hospital related purposes? I think his government might fall. He's staked a great deal on the fairy tale that Iran has made a decision to build a bomb. He's been pursuing a war with Iran for decades, trying to get the United States involved in that. If it becomes clear that he no longer has the clout in Washington that he has claimed to Israeli voters, Israel is a democracy for Jews, if not for others. um uh he has claimed a special relationship and ability to manipulate the politics of the United States. If that is no longer the case, I think he's discredited in a in a way that could easily be fatal for his political career and then he would face justice in the Israeli courts on charges of corruption and fraud. How uh how thin is the political ice on which he is standing as we speak, ambassador? Very thin. Uh he has managed to alienate the entire world other than the United States which now appears to be wobbling in that direction. Um in internally in he has of course no friends in the region. uh there is no uh no no real peace. That is to say peace is the condition that uh others find sufficiently uh satisfactory that they don't feel any in inclination to overthrow it. Um there's nobody in the region who's satisfied with Israel as the regional hegeimon internally in Israel. He's alienated the ultraorththodox. He's alienated the hostage families. He's alienated liberal Isla Is Israelis who support the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. Uh he's alienated his own intelligence uh apparatus uh his own military uh the reserveists. He's brought disaster to the economy. He's destroyed the livelihood of of literally hundreds of thousands of Israelis. Um he's forced many Israelis to immigrate. um he has basically ruined Israel and uh I think he is on very nice for all those reasons. You know, one wonders where uh where this is going to go because even though President Trump has surrounded himself in his national security apparatus with about 2thirds neocons and about one-third America firsters by America firsters I mean those who uh do not favor the use of American force to change the governmental structure of other uh countries and who view war as a last resort even though he sometimes listens to them to a person. Neocons plus American firsters they are Zionists to a person. Correct. So so he he is almost shoveling against the tide of the West Wing if he's irritating Netanyahu. Am I reading this as you do? Uh I think you are. And um again I give him credit for having the courage of his own convictions. Um uh yes he's bombard he I think he's made a whole series of absolutely disastrous appointments and personnel decisions. But notwithstanding that he seems to maintain the independence of his own thinking. And while uh the execution of his policies must depend on those subordinates, the basic attitude, the basic thrust of US policy uh now on many issues is in the right direction. He's seeking peace in between Russia and Ukraine and and a revamp of transatlantic relations to ensure that Europe takes more responsibility for its own defense. uh he's negotiating with Iran to restore uh some sort of uh international supervision of its nuclear programs at least and and uh prevent the nuclear proliferation. Interestingly, he has not u imposed a similar um condition on Israel, which is a nuclear power in violation of of uh of of everything in the NPT uh and which uh which of course um insists on wielding its nuclear power to reinforce its uh freedom of action against all its neighbors in disregard of international law. uh he has uh called off the war in Yemen. Um uh I think uh recognizing that it was both a waste of money and energy and uh totally ineffectual. Um he has now backtracked at least temporarily on the trade war with China. He implemented tariffs. He assaulted China with economic warfare. They responded. He's now backed off. they have responded again by acknowledging the retreat. So on many many issues, he is taking a position aimed at peace, at long-term arrangements that are advantageous to the United States. Whether the implementation is good or not, I think you have to give him credit for trying. A great uh a great summary, a great handle uh on what's happening. ambassador. We'll we'll conclude with it. Thank you very much. Thank you for that last uh very very insightful analysis. Thank you for your time as always. Have a good day, a good week. We'll look forward to seeing you next week, sir. You have a good week, too. Bye-bye. Thank you. All the best.
